Greece waits for cash despite austerity vote

ATHENS, Greece (AP) ¡X Greece's euro partners won't be able to sign off on the release of the country's next batch of bailout cash at a meeting next week, even though its Parliament narrowly backed more unpopular austerity measures today.

Germany's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the 17-country eurozone is not yet in a position to make a decision on releasing the funds, as many in Athens had hoped. The 17 euro finance ministers are due to meet Monday.

"We're not there yet," Schaeuble said in Hamburg.

"I don't see how we would get to a decision next week," he said. "Not all is lost, but not all is won."

The approval of the austerity bill, which will further cut salaries and pensions and increase taxes, was a key step toward persuading Greece's international creditors to release the next $40.2 billion installment of the country's vital bailout loans.

Without it, the government has said the country will start running out of cash Nov. 16, paving the way to Greece's potential bankruptcy and exit from the euro. That scenario has kept financial markets on edge for the past three years.

However, Germany, the biggest single contributor to Europe's bailouts, has insisted Greece must first pass its 2013 budget to create the basis on which the country's creditors can make a decision to release the new funds.

After the budget vote, which is scheduled for Sunday, the release of the funds still hinges on a report by the so-called troika of debt inspectors from the European Union, IMF and European Central bank. That is not expected to be ready in time for the Monday meeting.

In addition, some euro countries such as Germany can only give the go-ahead after their own parliaments have voted on it.

Schaeuble's comments strongly suggest an interim financial arrangement for Greece might have to be agreed.

Sunday's budget vote in Athens represents another test to the coalition government of Antonis Samaras. Today's vote in favor of the 13.5 billion-euro austerity package came at a cost for the fragile three-party coalition government.

Lawmakers voted 153-128 for the package, hours after more than 80,000 protesters demonstrated outside ¡X some fighting running battles with riot police.

Only two of the three parties in the coalition backed the package ¡X the majority conservatives and the Socialists. But there also was dissent in those ranks, with seven lawmakers expelled for failing to back the measures and an eighth saying he was leaving the Socialists to continue as an independent member of Parliament.

Nevertheless, the government is not in imminent threat as the third party, the Democratic Left, which abstained from the austerity vote, insists it will continue as a coalition member. The three parties are expected to present a united front in the budget vote.