While Athens Smolders

The Greek Parliament endured another night of tear gas and intra-party turmoil Wednesday to pass its latest package of spending cuts, tax hikes and labor-market reforms, just as new figures confirmed the economy's continued deterioration. This year, Greece's output will be 80% of what it was in 2009. The jobless rate has risen for 39 consecutive months, and 58% of young people are out of work.

But even a sunnier economic picture for Greece wouldn't save it from the disastrous illogic of Europe's rescue strategy. The International Monetary Fund has threatened to halt its aid contributions if Athens can't bring its debt down to 120% of GDP by 2020. The latest Greek budget puts the 2013 figure at 189.1%.

The IMF's expectations will look surreal so long as the Greek government fails, again and again, to achieve its deficit and structural-reform objectives. But they also look irresponsible so long as the Fund, the EU and the European Central Bank refuse to countenance a writedown of their own loans to Athens. Instead of accepting their losses, they want to heap billions more on the table.

Some will argue that Wednesday's vote signals that all sides are committed to continuing down this path, however grim. That's probably true of this Greek government, but it might not be true of the next. Wednesday's bill squeaked through with a three-vote majority; seven parliamentary members of the governing coalition were expelled from their parties for flouting the party line. Change comes quickly these days in Greek politics. Three years ago, the center-left Pasok party took 160 seats in the 300-member Parliament. Wednesday's carnage leaves it with 27.

Alexis Tsipras¡Xwho leads the opposition as head of the Coalition of the Radical Left, or Syriza¡Xhas bided his time, but there will come a day when his calls for a no-confidence vote against the coalition will be more than bluster. And even more unsavory elements wait in the wings: The fascist Golden Dawn party has crept into third place in the polls.

The Greek Parliament votes Sunday on next year's budget. The coalition will have an easier time getting a majority than it did on Wednesday, but German officials have already hinted that the measures won't be enough to merit sign-off on a two-year, £á30 billion extension to the bailout program. Greece and its partners aren't out of this hell yet.