Greece bracing for fresh problems after key vote

Debt-battered Greece was on tenterhooks yesterday after lawmakers narrowly approved billions of euros in tough new spending cuts to unlock another slice of international aid and save the country from imminent bankruptcy.
MPs adopted late on Wednesday an 18.5bn-euro ($23.6bn) package of cuts and labour reforms as tens of thousands of angry protesters massed outside parliament, with scenes of sporadic violence as demonstrators hurled petrol bombs and police fired tear gas.
European stock markets were stronger but the euro was down slightly yesterday following the vote, which was welcomed by European paymaster Germany.
Despite the approval of the measures, conservative Prime Minister Antonis Samaras¡¦s coalition government was licking its wounds after seven MPs defected, and it must now battle to ensure the cuts do not sink Greece deeper into recession.
The package is vital for eurozone member Greece to unlock a 31.5bn-euro tranche of aid from its troika of international creditors ¡V the EU, International Monetary Fund (IMF) and European Central Bank.
Eurozone creditors are due to make a decision on the release of the funds ¡V part of a massive rescue package ¡V at a meeting of finance ministers on Monday. Without the aid, Greece risks running out of money on November 16.
¡§The measures were adopted but now the problems begin both for the people who face major cuts and also for the government,¡¨ the mass-selling Ta Nea newspaper said.
¡§The government is faced with two challenges: one to ensure the payment of the 31.5bn euro aid tranche from the EU-IMF loan and the second is to kickstart the economy so it can cope with further cuts in wages and pensions,¡¨ the centre-left paper said.
Europe¡¦s main stock markets rebounded slightly in early trade, although in Greece itself the main ATHEX stock index was down 2.95% at 801.42 points.
German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said the vote was ¡§an important affirmation of the consolidation and reform policies that are needed¡¨.
¡§This message will be heard throughout the eurozone,¡¨ he added.
¡§We have great respect for the sizeable efforts made by many people in Greece to surmount the crisis. Europe and Germany stand in solidarity behind Greece and the reform course on which it has embarked.¡¨
The tough measures to be implemented by 2016 include raising the retirement age to 67, slashing benefits, cutting the minimum wage, and deregulating the labour market.
Civil servants¡¦ 13th and 14th month pay are to be scrapped, and further salary cuts imposed on academics, hospital doctors, diplomats and members of the armed forces.
¡§Today we took a big and decisive step towards growth,¡¨ said Samaras, whose government is facing its toughest crisis since taking power in June.
In all, 153 out of 299 lawmakers voted in favour of the bill.
The next key test for the government is the adoption of the 2013 budget, which will be voted on by parliament on Sunday.
Hours before the late-night austerity vote, around 70,000 protesters took to the streets and marched to the parliament building to vent their anger, after a two-day general strike called by the main labour unions that had paralysed the capital.
The protest briefly turned violent when police fired tear gas to disperse groups of demonstrators, who responded by hurling petrol bombs.
Police said at least 20 people had been detained.
Despite the looming bankruptcy and renewed warnings of a possible exit from the eurozone, many Greeks are angry at repeatedly having to tighten their belts, with the country set for its sixth year in recession.
¡§These measures essentially bring us many years back. All the labour rights that the Greek people have won post-World War II and post-dictatorship are taken back,¡¨ union activist Marie Lavrentiadou complained.
The European Commission had forecast on Wednesday that Greece would come out of recession in 2014 with growth of 0.6%.
However, in the 2013 budget unveiled last week, the finance minister predicted the economy would shrink by a worse than expected 4.5% next year while the debt mountain would swell to 346bn euros or 189% of economic output.
EU staff strike against budget cuts
Workers in the European Union¡¦s main institutions went on strike yesterday to protest planned spending cuts they say will be detrimental for the EU¡¦s 500mn citizens.
About 500 demonstrators gathered outside the high-tech facade of the European Commission in the EU quarter of eastern Brussels carrying posters, ¡§Europe is in Danger¡¨ and ¡§Stop the Cuts¡¨.
¡§The total EU budget works out at just 0.67 euros per day per person,¡¨ unions said in a joint statement ahead of ministerial talks today in Brussels on the 2013 budget.
¡§We demand that the member states have the courage to say to their citizens that cutting the EU budget will have a higher cost ¡V the cost of not having Europe,¡¨ it said.
The EU employs some 40,000 people in all and unions said they hoped for a 10% turnout. No final figure was immediately available and while some services were affected, such as live translation, others seemed to carry on normally.
The European Commission has proposed a 6.8% increase to 138bn euros in the 2013 budget but many of the 27 member states are outraged to pay more at a time when they are cutting domestic spending.
France, Finland and Germany have said they want to cut 5.0bn euros while Britain has suggested even more as all sides prepare for a tough summit later this month on the even more contentious 2014-20 budget.
Administrative costs typically take 6.0% of the total, with salaries alone about 3.0%.