Parliamentary Maneuvers in Greece Ahead of Austerity Vote

Read more: http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/world/parliamentary-maneuvers-in-greece-ahead-of-austerity-vote-661025/#ixzz2BprbzxGb

ATHENS -- Hours before the Greek Parliament was scheduled to vote on a controversial austerity budget package Wednesday, its supporters fought off an opposition effort to declare the legislation unconstitutional.
The main opposition party, the left-leaning Syriza, withdrew its demand for a constitutionality vote after it became apparent that enough members of Parliament from the ruling coalition were on hand to block the proposal.
The maneuvering came during what is expected to be a lengthy parliamentary debate here before a vote on the budget package, which is not expected to occur before late Wednesday evening or early Thursday.
The budget legislation, which is expected to pass by a thin margin, is meant to cut the government budget by £á17 billion, or $21.7 billion, over the next four years.
The new budget is a prerequisite to international lenders' agreeing to give Greece £á31.5 billion in rescue loans that the country needs to remain solvent.
The measures include new cuts to pensions, civil service salaries and social benefits. Critics say the budget will aggravate the country's recession, which is in its sixth year and has pushed the unemployment rate above 25 percent.
Last week, the Court of Auditors, which vets bills before they go to Greece's Parliament, ruled that certain elements of the budget package -- like additional cuts to pensions -- could be construed as violating Greece's Constitution. But the finance ministry, which drafted the legislation, declared the ruling nonbinding.
On Wednesday, Greece's supreme court ruled that proposed cuts of up to 30 percent to the salaries of judges, as part of a reduction of civil servants' pay, would violate the Constitution's protections of judges' "personal and operational independence." There was no immediate indication from the finance ministry on whether that part of the budget bill would be removed.
Earlier in the day, with the parliamentary debate already under way, many members of the ruling coalition parties that support the legislation had not yet arrived. In an apparent attempt to take advantage of their absence, Syriza and a right-wing opposition party called Independent Greeks called for a vote on the constitutionality of the austerity package. But once coalition members rushed to Parliament to ward off that move, Syriza withdraw the challenge.
The Syriza leader, Alexis Tsipras, whose party is leading in the polls and this week called for new elections, complained about the late arrivals. "At a time that an objection regarding constitutionality is being discussed, you should be here, not at your homes and then come by taxi to distort the result," he said.
Evangelos Venizelos, leader of the Socialists, who are part of the ruling coalition, countered with a Twitter post noting that Greece's first bailout loan deal in 2010 had been approved by the Council of State, the country's highest administrative court.


Read more: http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/world/parliamentary-maneuvers-in-greece-ahead-of-austerity-vote-661025/#ixzz2Bpre4e5M