Greece sees general strike on eve of crucial austerity vote

ATHENS, Greece ¡X Tens of thousands of angry Greek strikers marched through Athens on Tuesday before a crucial vote in parliament on a new round of unpopular austerity measures.

Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras urged parliament to approve the new cuts to avoid bankruptcy as more than 30,000 demonstrators marched in the Greek capital.

"We need to pass the austerity program in order to avoid a hard bankruptcy," Stournaras said during a debate on the package, which includes new pension cuts, tax hikes, raising the retirement age to 67 and adjustments to make the firing of civil servants easier.

Labor unions launched a 48-hour strike to protest the cuts causing public transport, health and other services to grind to a halt across the country.

The general strike comes as lawmakers prepare to vote on $17.2 billion of cuts late on Wednesday, followed by a vote on the 2013 national budget late on Sunday.

Although it is expected that the government will get the majority to pass the bill, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras still faces opposition to the cuts from his coalition partners, the socialist PASOK party and the Democratic Left.

The ruling coalition has 176 seat in the 300-seat parliament and requires an absolute majority to pass the bill.

The bill would pass with 160 votes from the socialists and Samaras' conservatives even if the Democratic Left carries out its threat to vote against the government.

If parliament rejects the bill, Greece will face the threat of being cut off from bailout loans from the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund.

The 48-hour strike by unions left flights grounded for several hours while ferries remained docked at ports across the country and trains, including the Athens metro, and taxis stopped running.

Hospitals operated with emergency staff. Schools, government offices and businesses were closed.

Lawyers embarked on a five day work stoppage Monday, while prosecutors extended their strike to Nov. 18.