Patent talk: Apple sticks up for apps developers; Microsoft loses in Supreme Court

Apple has filed to intervene in a patent case that could have huge implications for the many small developers who make up its massive apps ecosystem, which now number ¡§425,000 apps¡K from tens of thousands of unique developers,¡¨ it says. Here¡¦s a rundown of the tussle, which we recently mentioned in this space: A Texas company called Lodsys warns several apps developers that they are infringing on two patents involving in-app purchases. Apple writes Lodsys a letter telling it that the company has license rights to the patents in question, and that it is extending those rights to the developers who write apps for its family of iDevices. Lodsys then sues the developers.

Now Apple wants to become a defendant in the case, and FOSS Patents¡¦ Florian Mueller, who first reported the news, writes that it seems likely the company will be allowed to do so. The company, in its filing Thursday, says it is acting under the ¡§doctrines of exhaustion and first sale.¡¨ In other words, Apple is arguing that Lodsys is attempting to squeeze too much profit out of its patents. Lodsys, of course, disagrees. ¡§It is the 3rd party Developers that are responsible for the infringement of Lodsys¡¦ patents and they are responsible for securing the rights for their applications,¡¨ the company writes on its website.

Among the defendants is an Android app developer, and Mueller writes that Google should follow Apple¡¦s lead on this. ¡§Google can¡¦t remain silent for too much longer. ¡K We¡¦re talking about a serious problem here for little guys: a U.S. patent lawsuit is way beyond what most of them can afford.¡¨ In a previous post, Mueller opined that Lodsys ¡§does have a case that¡¦s unfortunately good enough to (potentially) go to trial.¡¨

In other patent-related news, the Supreme Court on Thursday upheld a $290 million judgment against Microsoft. The massive software company must pay a small, Toronto-based one called i4i for infringement of its patent on a feature that Microsoft has since pulled from Word. The case had been closely watched because Microsoft had also sought to lower the ¡§clear and convincing evidence¡¨ standard for invalidating patents, and big tech companies such as Google, Apple and Facebook had lined up in support of Microsoft¡¦s effort. (See The tech patent pool: C¡¦mon in, the water¡¦s frigid.)

Although the High Court ruled against Microsoft¡¦s effort, David Long, a patent attorney for Dow Lohnes, pointed to a potentially significant tidbit in the ruling in an email to GMSV: new evidence. According to the Wall Street Journal, Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote that if the patent office ¡§did not have all the material facts before it¡¨ when it awarded a patent, a jury could consider that when weighing a patent¡¦s validity. A patent reform bill pending in the House includes the ability for third parties to challenge patents. Robert Merges, a UC-Berkeley professor, told the WSJ that that provision in the bill ¡§just became a little more important.¡¨