Canadian software company beats giant

Loudon Owen did the unthinkable. He went 15 rounds with the giant and emerged with a knockout victory. Now, the only thing left to do is ensure his vanquished opponent coughs up the prize money.

On Thursday, the chairman of Toronto's i4i Inc. received a call informing him that the United States Supreme Court had ruled against Microsoft Corp. and in favour of Owen's software company, bringing an end to a patent dispute that turned into a four-year legal odyssey.

Justices with the United States' top court unanimously upheld the record $290-million US jury verdict awarded to the software company by a lower court in Texas in 2009.

The ruling is a humbling defeat for Microsoft, the world's largest software company. The judgment represents the single-biggest patent-dispute loss for a company that has vehemently defended its technological innovation throughout its storied history.

For Owen, the ruling from the top court in the U.S. is a victory for the patent system and marks a new beginning for i4i.

"This has become one of the most important business cases in decades that the Supreme Court has taken on, and we're clearly very pleased with the outcome," Owen said. "We've been operating under a cloud and that cloud of litigation has certainly impeded our ability to grow our business."

i4i launched its suit against Microsoft in 2007, claiming that the Redmond, Washington-based company infringed on U.S. patent No. 5,787,449 ('449) -- related to the XML computer programming language -- when the technology titan created its Word 2003 and Word 2007 software.

One patent expert in Toronto said it will be difficult for Microsoft to delay paying the damages owed to i4i now that its legal options appear to have been exhausted.

Kevin Kutz, director of public affairs, said Microsoft was disappointed by the verdict, but that the company would continue to push for patent reform.

"This case raised an important issue of law which the Supreme Court itself has questioned in an earlier decision and which we believed needed resolution," Kutz said in a statement.

"While the outcome is not what we had hoped for, we will continue to advocate for changes to the law that will prevent abuse of the patent system and protect inventors who hold patents representing true innovation."

Microsoft had argued for an amendment to U.S. patent law to lower the standard of proof for defendants in patent infringement cases. Microsoft had asked the court to do away with the requirement that a defendant in a patent infringement case prove with convincing evidence the invalidity of the plaintiff's patent.

Read more: http://www.timescolonist.com/technology/Canadian+software+company+beats+giant/4924828/story.html#ixzz1PUqOCCLn
