Microsoft Gets Defeated in Court Battle over Patent

Microsoft Corp lost its court battle after justices unanimously favored i4i from Toronto and supported a record $290 million jury verdict against Microsoft・s patent infringement. Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the high court did not side with Microsoft・s lower standard than that of a defendant in a patent infringement case to prove a plaintiff・s patent is unacceptable. Microsoft debated that preponderance of the evidence would make it easier for bad patents to be nullified in product innovation and rivalry. Sotomayor said the Congress・s prescribed standard of proof governance generally prevails. White House and i4i are against Microsoft・s stand. They said the Supreme Court has to support the Congress-accepted standard that has been in effect for the past 28 years.

i4i filed a lawsuit against Microsoft in 2007 on infringement of its patent on text manipulation software. i4i was favored by a federal jury and awarded $290 million to i4i when Microsoft, in 2003 and 2007 versions of Word, its word processing application, was found to have infringed the patent. An appeals court supported the decision, so did the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Microsoft got rid of the features in question but went ahead to dispute the decisions and appealed to the Supreme Court for a new trial. The justices ruled against Microsoft.

Michel Vulpe, i4i・s founder and chief technology officer said they・re very pleased with the decision however, it・s not really over. Microsoft has also challenged the patent pending at the patent office. It may also still have to pay other potential licensing fees. Microsoft admitted this is not the result they expected but they are prepared about the money for the verdict and that it will not affect its earnings. Spokesman Kevin Kutz said they will keep on advocating patent system abuse prevention to protect investors who support patents representing true innovation. Latham & Watkins・ Max Grant said the Supreme Court wisely left alone a complex area of the law that balances many competing interests when it upheld the standard.
After the court decision, Microsoft shares dipped but managed to reverse it and were at $23.93 by the afternoon. Sotomayor said patent infringement cases where decisions have to vary from the standard have to be Congress-approved. Microsoft is backed by Google Inc, Yahoo Inc and trade groups such as the Computer & Communications Industry Association. i4i on the other hand has the support of Bayer AG, 3M Co and biotechnology groups including pharmaceutical companies.

The Supreme Court case is Microsoft Corp v. i4i Limited Partnership and Infrastructures for Information Inc, No. 10-29 was decided by 8 Supreme Court members. Ninth member Chief Justice John Roberts was excused as he owns some Microsoft shares.