In Wake of First Loss, Cavaliers Share the Blame 

CLEVELAND ¡X Riding with LeBron James can seem like a luxury. He scores and he passes, exhorts and entertains, and nimbly carries all of Cleveland¡¦s burdens across his broad, bulging shoulders.

James absorbs the spotlight. And when his team stumbles, he absorbs the heat, too.

So there he was late Wednesday night, volunteering that the Cavaliers¡¦ first playoff loss of 2009 was his fault, and never mind his 49 points, 8 assists, 3 blocks and 2 steals. The offense had become stagnant, James said. He had resorted to too much one-on-one play, he offered.

Sitting a few feet to his right, Mo Williams frowned and interjected.

¡§I want to add to that last one,¡¨ he said, impulsively cutting off a question. ¡§I don¡¦t think that him going one-on-one was the factor. I think he had it going, and that¡¦s part of our offense, for him to attack the net. I think the key, the biggest key to the game, was myself.¡¨

It was a simple and hugely significant gesture. Last summer, the Cavaliers tapped Williams to fill the long-vacant role of No. 2 scorer, to diversify the offense, to support James, to ease his burden just slightly. Williams performed brilliantly all season, but he faltered in a 107-106 loss to Orlando in the opener of the Eastern Conference finals. Williams missed a desperation shot at the buzzer, although it was the other 12 misses in a 6-for-19 night that troubled him. He looked despondent on the interview podium, and only slightly less so before practice Thursday.

¡§If I¡¦m aggressive, if I¡¦m making shots, taking pressure off that young fellow, we¡¦re a better team,¡¨ Williams said.

It was suggested that he was being too hard on himself. ¡§No,¡¨ he said, ¡§that¡¦s the reality. I let him down.¡¨

For the first time in this postseason, the Cavaliers are feeling the full weight of expectations. They rumbled through the regular season with 66 wins and cruised through two rounds without losing a game. Orlando has presented them with their first true test, and their first taste of adversity in more than a month.

James, the league¡¦s most valuable player, is charged with delivering a title to this championship-starved city. The rest of the lineup is charged with making sure he gets the chance to do so before he reaches free agency in 2010.

This is all new to Williams, a 26-year-old point guard and first-time All-Star who averaged 17.8 points this season. A former second-round pick by Utah, Williams entered this season with limited playoff experience: five games with Milwaukee in 2006. The stakes are higher now and his role greater.

¡§I was amped up,¡¨ he said of his first conference finals game. ¡§I was too amped up, to be honest.¡¨

James, ever the selfless superstar, said Williams need not take the blame for the 1-0 deficit.

¡§I always tell Mo, ¡¥Let me take care of the pressure, and you just go out and play.¡¦ ¡¨ James said. ¡§But Mo is just that type of guy. He believes he can always do more to help the team.¡¨

The Cavaliers had plenty else to worry about as they prepared for Game 2. They tried man-to-man defense against Dwight Howard, and he carved up Zydrunas Ilgauskas for 30 points and 13 rebounds. They sent the scrappy Anderson Varejao to check Rashard Lewis, and Lewis hit 9 of 13 shots, including the winning 3-pointer, with Varejao in his face. They blew a 16-point lead. And despite priding themselves as being the N.B.A.¡¦s best defensive team, the Cavaliers allowed Orlando to make 55.1 percent of its field goals.

The Magic¡¦s victory was no fluke. Orlando has won 9 of its last 12 games against Cleveland, including a 29-point rout on April 3 that was the Cavaliers¡¦ worst loss of the season.

In the LeBron era, the Cavaliers have lost the opener of a series four times, and lost the series all but once. They fell behind Detroit by 2-0 in the 2007 conference semifinals before winning the next four games. That series turned on James¡¦s amazing 48-point effort in Game 5 ¡X a performance that might have been displaced in LeBron lore had the Cavaliers been able to secure the victory Wednesday.

James will need help to save this series. Williams, having shaken off his postseason jitters, struck a bold tone Thursday.

¡§I¡¦m really saying that I don¡¦t feel this team can beat us four times,¡¨ he said. ¡§I don¡¦t see them beating us four times.¡¨