Eastern Conference Finals Betting: Game 2 멨 Orlando Magic vs. Cleveland Cavaliers 8:30 ET

The Orlando Magic and the Cleveland Cavaliers meet in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Finals on Friday and JustBet Sportsbook has all of your NBA Playoff Betting needs covered. If you went to bed at halftime of Game 1 you sure missed a classic as the Magic recovered from a 15-point deficit to take a 107-106 victory over the Cavs. The 몬oddsmakers몭 are once again picking the Cavaliers, this time as even loftier 9.5-point favorites and the 몬total몭 has been raised to 188 after these two combined for 213 points on Wednesday.
	
Dwight Howard
20.6 PPG, 13.8 RPG 	LeBron James
28.4 PPG, 7.6 RPG

The Magic shocked just about every basketball expert by claiming victory in Game 1 and rewarded loyal Magic bettors everywhere. The 몬magic몭 number for Orlando has been 100, when they reach the century-mark, the Magic are 4-0 SU & ATS in the 2009 NBA Playoffs. Despite the officials몭 ticky-tack foul calls that sent him to the bench early, Magic C Dwight Howard scored 30 points and grabbed 13 boards. 몮Superman몯 scored Orlando몭s first points of the game when he dunked the ball and broke the shot clock off the goal. If Howard continues to have his way inside in this series, the Cavs can forget about beating the Magic whose outside game feeds off his inside presence. The Magic are 4-0 ATS against the Cavs this season and 5-3 ATS in their eight road playoff contests.

The Cavaliers came out gunning in Game 1 getting out to a 33-19 lead after the first quarter and extending the lead to 63-48 at the break. From there, they were outscored 59-43 the rest of the way which allowed the Magic to reclaim home court advantage. Cavs F LeBron James needed to score more than his 32 PPG average for his team to have any chance in this series. Who knew he몭d score 49 points in a loss? 몮King James몯 got his teammates going in the first half and finished with eight assists, but he is going to need a lot more help for the Cavs to compete in this series. Cleveland몭s bench was outscored 25-5 on Wednesday and must step up tonight. The Cavs are 1-11 ATS against the Magic in the L/12 meetings.

It몭s hard to believe, but the 몬oddsmakers몭 are still disregarding the overwhelming ATS numbers the Magic have put up against the Cavs in recent meetings. Orlando will once again cover this lofty spread if not win outright once again! The 몬underdog몭 is 9-3 ATS in the L/12 meetings and bettors can expect that hot streak to continue in Game 2.