The Optimist

Shalom, y¡¦all! And welcome to the Rustbelt Shangri-La we locals call ¡§Cleveland.¡¨

My name is the Optimist, your host as we take on our fierce playoff rivals: the Orlando Magic. You guys can probably tell that my sweet Playoff Beard is one ¡§round¡¨ longer. I found a Rolo? in there last week. Which was nice.

Some of you are probably thinking: ¡§Hey, Optimist ¡V what¡¦s with the exclamation points and the Rolo? stories? Don¡¦t you know we¡¦re down 0-1, man?¡¨

Yes, I do know that we are down, 0-1. And verily I say unto thee: Remain calm. All is well.

It¡¦s easy to remain calm when you realize that the Magic shot 64 percent over the last three quarters of Game 1 and beat Cleveland by a single point. As much as it pains me to say, the Cavaliers weren¡¦t going to go undefeated through the postseason. And what happened on Wednesday wasn¡¦t good. It was great.

After 18 days off and eight one-sided wins, the Wine and Gold finally got their wake-up call. The Magic drew the first blood of the playoffs, and they got Cleveland¡¦s attention. Dwight Howard even came in here and broke stuff. But I forecast the Cavaliers will get their freak on this Friday at The Q.

Don't fool yourself: Orlando will come in juiced up. By now, you¡¦ve heard about the halftime speech in Game 1, where Magic coach Stan Van Gundy called his guys out, saying: ¡§You¡¦re all witnesses!¡¨

Oh!!! The grapes on this guy!!

Check out my man, tearing Hedo a new one.
Coach Mike Brown is ¡V and for the foreseeable future ¡V shall be the All-Optimist First Team Coach. He¡¦s the best in the business and he¡¦s got the NBA hardware to prove it.

But the more I see of Coach Stan Van Gundy, the more I like this man. And I¡¦m telling you right now, if he plays his cards right, he¡¦s got a chance to dethrone four-time incumbent, Doc Rivers, as All-Optimist Second Team Head Coach next year.

I¡¦m trying to dislike the Magic, for the sake of competition. But I find myself digging Coach Van Gundy. He¡¦s a consummate winner, but he looks like a guy who¡¦d tell you a great story in a hotel bar ¡V maybe get you in a headlock after. He rocks a Playoff Mustache. And he doesn¡¦t care about your ¡§rules¡¨ ¡V your stupid ¡§collars¡¨ or your fancypants French cuffs.

And, by the way, I¡¦m warning you younger Junior Optimists out there right now: during this Eastern Conference Finals series, I shan¡¦t be publishing any letters about Coach Van Gundy and any fictional relation to Nina Hartley and/or Hyapatia Lee. I won¡¦t publish those letters. I won¡¦t. I¡¦m better than that.

I will publish a well-timed letter from the beloved military wing of the Junior Optimists ¡V from a young man who¡¦s so bat-crap crazy, it makes me sleep better at night knowing he¡¦s on our side. 

Wow. That Army dude blows my mind. What¡¦s great about today¡¦s letter is that ¡§a bit enraged¡¨ is as calm as I think he¡¦s ever been.

I agree with your acumen, SPC Sirna. I think the Cavaliers are going to turn this series around. Quickly.

Fig. A
I¡¦ve been watching a lot of film on Orlando¡¦s Dwight Howard, and I stumbled upon what I believe is rare footage from this February. It was of New York Knicks guard, Nate Robinson, dunking all over this self-professed ¡§Superman.¡¨ I mean, Nate jumped over the top of him! (see Figure A, left)

Look, I¡¦m not saying Dwight Howard isn¡¦t a solid defender. He was this year¡¦s Defensive Player of the Year. But I am saying: if little itty-bitty Nate Robinson can dunk over the top of him without lifting a finger, how tough could he be?

If I¡¦ve seen that film, you can bet Cavaliers offensive coordinator John Kuester has. And he implores Mike Brown to run it over and over again.

Brown acquiesces and the Cavaliers run the play to precision. Before long, presumptive 2009-10 Second Team Coach Van Gundy has to pull his superstar center with four fouls.

By then, TheBron has scored half as many points as he had in Game 1, yet is ironically twice as productive. He dishes to an en fuego Sir Maurice Williams, who cans his fifth bomb of the evening ¡V a 27-footer as the shot-clock expires to put the Cavaliers up a dozen.

FEAR THE BEARD!
Joe Smith drains his 15th and 16th points of the game on an 18-footer that gives the Wine and Gold their biggest lead (17) and Coach Brown empties his bench with just over two minutes to play, with the Cavaliers taking Game 2 in convincing fashion ¡V 106-94 .

TheBron notches a triple-double and the Large Lithuanian adds 17 boards and 16 points, much of it on dunks leaping directly over the top of Howard.

Yes, Cavalier fans, you can call Elk & Elk, because this series is about the get serious.

The Wine and Gold stand on the verge of history, my friends. And they¡¦ve come too far to be stopped now. Memorial Day Weekend is here and the Cavaliers are going to start it off with a stone groove on Friday night at The Q! All you have to have to do is gird up and ¡K

Keep the faith, Cleveland

Sincerely yours,