Cleveland Cavaliers fans need to keep faith as team faces next NBA playoff test
Tuesday, May 19, 2009

Cleveland Cavaliers fans, check your heartbeat, keep your favorite stomach medicine nearby. Be ready for long, wild nights watching your favorite team followed by bleary-eyed mornings that come too quick.

The real playoffs begin when your team steps on the Quicken Loans Arena floor Wednesday night against the Orlando Magic. This is the NBA's Eastern Conference finals, and it probably is a series in which the Cavs won't need to use a broom, as they did in sweeping away Detroit and Atlanta in the first two rounds. Orlando is the kind of team the Cavs must beat if they are to make history.

Cleveland fans know the history: The Drive. The Fumble. The Shot. Jose Mesa.

Please, pass the aspirin right now, the heads of local sports fans are about to explode!

The most recent major sports championship happened before many Cavs fans were even alive, thank you, the 1964 Cleveland Browns.

But how about the 2009 Cleveland Cavaliers sharing a little of the glory? How about a parade down Euclid Avenue for a team that actually won its final game of the season? Not like the Indians in 1995 and 1997 who were correctly celebrated, but still lost in the World Series.

How about the Cavaliers not vanishing from the playoffs because of the magic that suddenly surrounds an Orlando team? That Magic team crushed defending NBA champion Boston on the Celtics' home floor Sunday night by a stunning 101-82 verdict in Game 7.

32-1.

That's what Orlando coach Stan Van Gundy wrote on the blackboard before Sunday's upset. That's because Boston was 32-0 when leading, 3-2, in a best-of-seven series.

Not anymore.

So the team coming to Cleveland on Wednesday won 59 regular-season games. They won two playoff games in Boston, they beat the Cavaliers in two of their three regular-season games. They have Dwight Howard, the self-proclaimed "Superman," a 6-11, 270-pound defensive monster in the middle. Orlando is a team good enough to keep Cavs coaches up until the early hours of the morning watching game tapes, scrawling schemes of X's and O's on yellow legal pads - or even on napkins in the middle of meals....