DENVER ¡X
After playing in seven straight conference finals and being named MVP of the 2004 NBA Finals, Chauncey Billups has earned the nickname "Mr. Big Shot." However, as the "Thrill from Park Hill" will tell you himself, he might not even be the most clutch player on his own team.

That distinction may now belong to Carmelo Anthony. That, of course, is a thought wrought with irony. After all, Anthony, prior to this season, had been heavily criticized for never being able to lead the Nuggets out of the first round of the NBA Playoffs.

In his defense, Anthony's supporters will tell you, he had qualified for the postseason in each of his first five years. Although, as Billups will tell you, you have to make some noise once you get there to be mentioned with the game's greats.

Noise? The Nuggets are screaming---and the rest of the NBA, particularly the Lakers, are hearing them loud and clear. That seems fitting for a team with a home crowd mentioned among as the loudest in the League.

Carmelo is making up for lost time----both personally and for the franchise. The 4-1 series win over the Hornets put the Nuggets in the conference semifinals for the first time in 15 years.

The series victory over Dallas sent them to the conference final for the first time in 24 years?..and now?.well, now is uncharted territory. You see, the Nuggets have NEVER made the NBA Finals.

A year ago, this team was swept by the Lakers in the first round. Anthony indicated the Nuggets "quit" in game three of that series. Now? Anthony is coming off a 34-point barrage, his fifth straight playoff game of scoring at least 30 points, and that is a franchise record.

Billups has made a difference. The attitude towards defense and overall game preparation has improved and the team is seeing results on the court. As Anthony said of comparing this year's team to the 2007-2008 squad: "This team, last year, the lead probably would have went from 10 to 20, you know, I'd be sitting here talking to you about a loss."

He went on to say that "this year our team is so much mentally tougher, you know, than we were last year. We came a long way, we've been through some battles throughout the season, throughout the Playoffs, and for us to fight back from that game one that we should have won, you know, that goes to say a lot about this team."

The Nuggets now have taken home court advantage away from the Lakers, though Kobe Bryant doesn't seem overly concerned saying "we don't have the best road record in the NBA for no reason."