The last-second shot LeBron can call his own

The great ones must have moments like this, to put up on the walls of basketball's inner sanctum, where the last-second classics are displayed.

Unforgettable plays come with ground rules. They must happen in the playoffs and they must mean something. They must save the day ¡V and sometimes the season. They must be so startling and extraordinary that people everywhere the next morning turn to friends and ask, "Did you see ¡K¡K?"

Magic Johnson's baby skyhook is in there, the one that helped bring down the Celtics in the NBA Finals. Larry Bird's steal is in there, the one that haunted the Pistons. Michael Jordan has an entire wall ¡V including the jumper that finished off the Cleveland Cavaliers in a long-ago series.

Now LeBron James has one to call his own.

Did you see ¡K?

"Wow," he said afterward.

Uh-uh. Wow.

Surely, by now, the highlight has reached Antarctica, not to mention Kobe Bryant's hotel room in Denver. The three-pointer James fired up while almost fading away, covered by an Orlando defender who would have needed handcuffs and a bayonet to guard him any better.

Salvation in one second. That's how long James had to catch, turn, shoot, and rip out Orlando's heart. Without that shot, the Magic take a 2-0 lead into two home games beginning Sunday, and the Cavaliers are as endangered as the blue whale. Without that shot, the entire city of Cleveland ¡V which sees ghosts of past flops in its breakfast cereal ¡X would need crisis intervention.

"For me, a second is a long time" James said in his press conference afterward. "For others, it is very short."

Yep, the great ones talk like that and feel that way. The court is a different world to them than the normal humans in short pants. The possibilities are more endless. When needed, the rim grows as wide as a bathtub, and time slows down and the defenders become invisible men. A neat trick, if you can pull it off, but so few do.

There is something else required at such an instant ¡X an absolute lack of fear of failing. The eagerness to make the shot that wins the game must forever be attached to the willingness to miss the shot that loses it. As the James Era fully blooms, heroics such as Friday are expected. They are mandatory, if a man wants to be mentioned with the icons. We know they are coming, we just don't know when.

James said this was the biggest shot of his life, and as of May 23, 2009, it undoubtedly is. But Game 3 of this torrid series is Sunday, with many more to come after that. It is pretty much a lock that he will be asked to save the Cavs' necks again. And again. And again.

A great play by a great player gets maybe 24 hours for savoring in the postseason. Then they're nearly ready to announce the lineups for the next game. Come Sunday, the Magic will be practitioners of amnesia.

Last-second shot? What last-second shot?

But we should not miss the message from Friday night. We are seeing a legend under construction here. James will need championships to make it look right in the end, but those take time. He also needs miracles. Those tend to make a star's aura tick up another level, away from the crowd.

We just watched one.

James mentioned how every kid who has ever played the game understands baskets like this one, because every kid has imagined making one in his backyard or on the playground. Young LeBron James certainly did.

"I was always Michael Jordan when I made that shot," he said.

Now he wants to be Michael Jordan as a professional. It's a long and uncertain journey, but he's one shot closer.