The shot heard 'round the NBA

It doesn't seem as if the Orlando Magic have the upper hand in their series with the Cleveland Cavaliers - after all, they did steal homecourt advantage by winning Game 1.

But after LeBron James' amazing buzzer-beater in Game 2 evened the series and evoked admiration across the nation, the Magic spent Saturday fighting a mental let-down.

"It's tough when you got to go home and watch it on TV over and over again," Magic center Dwight Howard said.

Lakers coach Phil Jackson claimed to have called it, watching at a diner in Denver.

"I was sitting at a counter, a greasy spoon I have in my soup and a greasy burger," Jackson said. "The guy next to me said, 'Aw, man, Orlando's going to go up 2-0 and Cleveland's going to go down in the series. You want to see Orlando?' I said, 'You wrote off this guy. He can still make a shot from almost anywhere.' And he did. That's the way he is. James is just a terrific player."

"Great, great shot," Nuggets point guard Chauncey Billups said. "It's what the great ones do."

The shot saved the Cavaliers from a daunting 0-2 hole, and already was being talked about as one of the greatest moments in Cleveland sports history. There's just one downside for the Cavs. "It is over and done with," James said.

For all the drama and emotion surrounding the riveting shot, the Cavaliers have plenty to fix if they want to reclaim home-court advantage when the series shifts to Orlando for Game 3 tonight.

The Magic ripped their defense apart, exposed their lack of depth and roared back from a double-digit deficit for the second straight game. Now the NBA's top-seeded team heads to Orlando, where it lost both games this season, including a 29-point blowout in April in which it trailed by as many as 41.

"To go on the road, 1 second from being down 0-2, going to Orlando and from zero seconds the shot goes in to being 1-1 going on the road, it is a good feeling for us," James said. "We can carry this momentum."

It's an all too familiar feeling for Orlando. The Magic have been last-second losers four times this postseason.

"How many times have I been asked that in the postseason so far?" coach Stan Van Gundy said. "Game 1 in Philly we lose at the buzzer. Is there going to be carry-over? OK. Game 3 in Philly, they beat us at the buzzer. Is there going to be carry-over? Game 4 against Boston, is there going to be carry-over? I mean, you know, I've heard that the entire postseason."

BRYANTS COUNTERSUE: Kobe Bryant and his wife are suing their former housekeeper, accusing her of violating her contract by talking to the media about the family's private affairs.

The housekeeper initially sued the Los Angeles Lakers star and his wife, contending they harassed and humiliated her. The countersuit was filed Friday in Orange County Superior Court in Santa Ana and says Maria Jimenez broke a confidentiality agreement she signed.