Gleason's Sporting World: LeBron's legend grows

Points to ponder while wondering if anyone other than the Bryant family and a smattering of Lakers fans still believe Kobe's better than LeBron.

Nor do you hear anyone talk anymore about James needing to discover a jump shot. When he went up for that jumper with a tick left in Game 2, probably the entire series riding on the release, I think most of us fully expected the ball to go into the basket. And it did.

And it added another layer to the making of a legend.

What do you call it when your pitcher balks three times in one game; your right fielder misses third base to prevent the go-ahead run in the 11th inning; and your young talent can't play any position?

Mets being the Mets.

We do a lot of good things in this business. Camping out in front of a prison to get a shot of Michael Vick getting into a car and going home isn't one of them.

I have to admit to being mildly pleased that Vick left prison without a trace despite cameras staking out at least two entrances. Vick always was pretty elusive. Now if you had asked him to hit one of those cameramen with a spiral, that's a whole different story.

I wonder if the Mets could use Raul Ibanez right about now.

Are we OK with Joe Girardi this week?

If J.J. Putz has a little trouble getting juiced for the eighth inning, maybe the Mets can see how he feels pitching in long relief. I mean, it's not like the guy has taken the town by storm so far. Last thing we need is a whiny set-up man.

I have absolutely no problem admitting that I possess only a passing knowledge of what constitutes a balk, and that often, I don't even pick up one on slow-mo replay.

And I have to say, I felt a bit insecure until I realized Mike Pelfrey has the same problem.

OK, so it only seems like the Clippers get the first pick in the NBA draft every year.

I'm no TV critic, but the Sunday Night Baseball crew of Jon Miller, Joe Morgan and the newest addition, Steve Phillips, appear to represent the easiest available trigger for a temple-splitting migraine.

Miller kisses up to Morgan, mispronounces names trying to be cute ¡X Bell-TRON! for the Mets' center fielder ¡X and, as an aside, wears some of the most garish suits you'll ever see.

Morgan refuses to criticize players, blames everything on the media and has developed a keen sense of the obvious.

Phillips, on the rare occasion he can sneak in a word, only occasionally makes a noteworthy point or challenges Morgan after one of his bizarre opinions.

If Pelfrey's having a balkfest during a Sunday night game in May, what are we to expect from him in the seventh inning of a tie game the Mets need to win vs. Philly in mid-September?

Jake Peavy better never spew the biggest cliche in professional sports, that he's all about the team winning, not when he exercises his no-trade clause to prevent a trade from the lousy Padres to the White Sox.

I guess the prognosticators had it right: Someone did go down when Joba met the Orioles and Aubrey Huff the other day.

I dare say 80 percent of remotes thrown straight through television sets can be explained by ESPN going to commercial just as the score you're desperately seeking is about to scroll across the bottom of the screen.

That's why the MLB Network has it right. When it returns from commercial, it resumes the scroll without you missing any information. Just a little suggestion if my friends at ESPN are reading: Resume the scroll.

Maybe I'll have those three words put on my headstone: Resume the scroll.

A couple friends have spent an awful long time dissecting and critiquing the work of Jerry Manuel this season. And there's a lot to dissect, just as there was a lot to dissect with Willie Randolph running the team.