Update on the latest in sports:

CLEVELAND (AP) All eyes will be on the Cavaliers tonight, watching to see how the top seed in the NBA playoffs responds to its first loss of the 2009 postseason.

Meanwhile, the Magic will be looking to take command of the best-of-seven Eastern Conference finals with a second straight victory in Cleveland. Orlando won Wednesday night's series opener 107-106, overcoming a career playoff-high 49 points from league MVP LeBron James, who cramped up in the fourth quarter and limped off the court after the final buzzer.

He blamed part of his fatigue on the long layoff since the Cavs swept Atlanta, saying it was impossible to replicate the game-day adrenaline rush during practice.

It was only the Cavs' third loss in 46 games on their home floor.

NBA-76ERS/COACHING VACANCY Wright not jumping to the NBA

PHILADELPHIA (AP) Villanova Basketball coach Jay Wright says he's talked to the Philadelphia 76ers about their head coaching job but is staying with the Wildcats.

Wright says he met last week with Sixers president Ed Stefanski to discuss the NBA job. He says he called Stefanski after that and asked to be removed from consideration.

Wright says he's flattered that he was considered. But he says he loves Villanova and that's where he wants to coach.

Villanova advanced to the Final Four this past season, losing to eventual national champion North Carolina in the semifinals.

Meanwhile, former NBA head coach Chris Ford has interviewed for the 76ers' job.

He's a pro scout with the organization and served as their interim coach five years ago, Ford has head coaching experience with the Celtics, Bucks, Clippers as well as the 76ers.

NHL-PLAYOFFS Red Wings looking to make it three straight over Blackhawks

CHICAGO (AP) After beating the Blackhawks in the opening two games at home, Detroit will be looking to take command of the NHL's Western Conference finals with a victory this evening in Chicago.

Pavel Datsyuk (dat-SOOKS') status is still unclear after the Red Wings' morning skate.

Coach Mike Babcock says the MVP candidate is a gametime decision. Datsyuk was hit in the foot with a puck during Game 2 on Tuesday night.

Datsyuk had 97 points during the regular season but has managed just seven in 13 playoff games, including only one goal. Detroit leads the best-of-seven series with the Blackhawks 2-0.

MLB-SCHEDULE Peavy scheduled to start for Padres

UNDATED (AP) A day after turning down a trade to the Chicago White Sox, Padres ace Jake Peavy is scheduled to take the mound tonight in San Diego against the Chicago Cubs. The home team is riding a six-game winning streak. The visitors will be out to halt a four-game losing skid.

Peavy brings a 3-5 record and 3.82 earned run average into his matchup against Carlos Zambrano. The Cubs ace comes of the disabled list with a 3-1 record and 4.50 ERA.

It's the lone National League matchup on the first day of 2009 interleague play.

Elsewhere around the major leagues, the New York Yankees bring a season-high nine-game winning streak into their home outing against the defending champion Philadelphia Phillies, Detroit puts a six-game winning streak on the line against visiting Colorado, Baltimore is on the road at Washington, Cincinnati entertains Cleveland, the New York Mets are at Boston, Florida hosts Tampa Bay, Toronto is at Atlanta, Houston hosts Texas, Minnesota is home to Milwaukee, Pittsburgh plays the White Sox in Chicago, Kansas City is at St. Louis, Oakland hosts Arizona, the Los Angeles Dodgers entertain the L.A. Angels and Seattle is home to San Francisco.

Golf-BYRON NELSON Co-leaders in the Lone Star state

IRVING, Texas (AP) PGA Tour rookie James Nitties and Ken Duke began round two of the Byron Nelson Classic sharing a one-stroke lead. They matched 8-under-par 64s in yesterday's opening round.

GOLF-SENIOR PGA CHAMPINSHIP Hoch and Purtzer the ones to catch

BEACHWOOD, Ohio (AP) Scott Hoch (hohk) hopes he doesn't pick up where he left off yesterday, when he bogeyed the final two holes for a 4-under 66 and a share of the first-round lead with Tom Purtzer in the 70th Senior PGA Championship.

Germany's Bernhard Langer fired a 68 and was alone in third.

It's the first major of the year for the 50-and-over set.

GOLF-LPGA'S CORNING CLASSIC Round two in Corning

CORNING, N.Y. (AP) Round two of the LPGA's Corning Classic began with Karine Icher (kuh-REEN' EE'-shur) of France and South Korea's Hee Young Park sharing a one-stoke lead. They opened with 8-under-par 64s yesterday.

NFL-VICK Vick has important meeting

NORFOLK, Va. (AP) Michael Vick walked into a federal courthouse in Virginia today to meet his probation officer. The suspended NFL star ignored questions from waiting reporters about his life under home confinement after being released from a federal prison this week.

It's Vick's first known public appearance since he left a Kansas penitentiary undetected early Wednesday and drove cross-country to arrive in Hampton, Virginia, early yesterday. That's when he began serving the two months of home confinement that should end his 23-month sentence for a dogfighting conspiracy.

Probation officials were at Vick's house yesterday to equip him with an electronic monitor so they can track his movements until he is released from federal custody July 20.

NFL-STEELERS/HARRISON'S DOG Harrison still making news after snubbing the President

PITTSBURGH (AP) A pit bull owned by Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison has reportedly attacked the player's young son.

Harrison's agent tells The Associated Press that the 2-year-old was bitten after his mother let the dog out of its pen yesterday afternoon. He describes the boy's injuries as "serious but certainly not life-threatening," and says he is expected to stay in the hospital for another day or two.

A spokesman for the Super Bowl champions tells The Associated Press this is a personal matter for Harrison and the club won't comment further.

Harrison is the NFL Defensive Player of the Year. He declined to join the Steelers on a White House visit Thursday.

Auto Racing-CATRONEVES Castroneves in the clear

MIAMI (AP) Federal prosecutors are dropping the remaining tax evasion conspiracy charge against former Indianapolis 500 champion Helio Castroneves (EHL'-ee-oh kas-troh-NEH'-vehz) and his sister.

The decision means a complete acquittal for the 33-year-old Brazilian driver, who has the pole position for Sunday's Indy 500.

Castroneves and his 35-year-old sister were acquitted of other tax evasion charges on April 17. His lawyer Alan Miller also was cleared of all wrongdoing.

The jury failed to agree on the conspiracy charge, resulting in a mistrial on that count. Now prosecutors have decided not to pursue a second trial on that charge.

Castroneves has twice won the Indy 500 and was champion in 2007 of TV's "Dancing With The Stars" competition.

TENNIS-FRENCH OPEN-DRAW French Open draw is set

PARIS (AP) The Williams sisters have been drawn into opposite sides of the French Open field. That means they can only meet in the final at Roland Garros, where Serena beat Venus in the 2002 finale.

Second-seeded Serena a two-time French Open champion begins play against Klara Zakopalova of the Czech Republic.

Third-seeded Venus Williams will face fellow American Bethanie Mattek-Sands in the first round.

Top-ranked Dinara Safina (din-NAH'-ruh sah-FEE'-nah) of Russia opens against Anne Keothavong of Britain.

Trying to become the first man to win five consecutive French Opens, top-seeded Rafael Nadal (nah-DAHL') of Spain will begin play in Paris against a qualifier.

Roger Federer will be looking to tie Pete Sampras with a record 14 major singles titles. The Swiss star starts against Alberto Martin (mahr-TEEN') of Spain.

OLYMPICS-BASKETBALL FIBA wants Olympic basketball to grow

GENEVA (AP) Basketball's global governing body has asked the International Olympic Committee to include four more teams at the 2012 London Games.

FIBA (FEE'-buh) says that having 16 instead of 12 countries would deliver bigger audiences and a more efficient tournament.

The men's tournament has had 12 teams since the 1976 Montreal Games but has grown in stature since NBA players were first allowed to play, at Barcelona in 1992.