NBA Conference Finals: The Underdogs Are Alive and Well


Sports
NBA Conference Finals: The Underdogs Are Alive and Well

Add to Favorites 	| 	Print Article 	| 	RSS Feed 	Sports RSS Feed
SPORTS: NBA Conference Finals: The Underdogs Are Alive and Well
Author: Chris Robinson
Read 118 Times Since
Posted on 2009-05-24

(Photo Credit: Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times)

When the 2008-2009 NBA season got rolling it became very clear that the Cleveland Cavaliers and the Los Angeles Lakers were going to be forces to deal with in their respective divisions. Cleveland would go on to grab the top spot in the East after posting a franchise best 66-16 record, going 39-2 at home, and the Lakers took the #1 seed in the West, going 65-17 for the year.
 
Fueled by their superstars Lebron James and Kobe Bryant, the Cavaliers and Lakers seemed destined for a collision in the NBA Finals. After finishing the season averaging 28.4 points, 7.6 rebounds, and 7.2 assists per contest on 49% shooting, James was later awarded his first MVP trophy in the midst of the Cavaliers steamrolling through the first and second rounds as they swept both the Pistons and the Hawks. The Lakers・ road to the Conference Finals was a little harder, as they were extended to seven games in the second round by a Houston Rockets team short on manpower but full of spirit and hustle.
 
So as the Lakers got ready to host the Denver Nuggets and the Cavaliers welcomed the challenge of the Orlando Magic to their court, there was still an undeniable vibe amongst NBA insiders and fans that the Lakers and Cavs would be the last teams standing. That matchup still remains a very real possibility, but after taking in the early games of the Conference Finals it is very abundant that the Nuggets and Magic haven・t come to lay down and will most likely be competitive every step of the way.
 
On Tuesday night the Nuggets got off to a strong start against the Lakers and built an early lead. Fueled by Carmelo Anthony・s 39 points, the Nuggets showed tenacity on defense and a varied attack on offense while leading deep into the 4th quarter. Amazingly the Lakers would close the game strong and after making key plays late would emerge with a 105-103 victory that had their fans breathing a sigh of relief. Afterwards people mentioned that the Nuggets had possibly let their chance of stealing the series・ momentum slip away but that obviously wasn・t the case.
 
On Thursday night the Nuggets again showed plenty of mental toughness as they bounced back from an early deficit to work their way back into the game by halftime. Down the stretch the Nuggets showed better decision making and after big games by Anthony and Chauncey Billups, would go on to even the series with a huge 106-103 victory.
 
In the game opener of the Eastern Conference Finals, things seemed to be going according to script early on as the Cavaliers stormed out to an early 16 point lead against the Magic. Lebron James was dynamic as ever but little by little the Magic worked their way back into the contest as the game neared the end of the fourth quarter. Both the Magic and Cavaliers showed plenty of upside but it was the Magic who made clutch key shots, especially forward Rashard Lewis, as they walked away with an impressive 107-106 upset victory.
 
With the Nuggets・ now tied with the Lakers and the Magic having stolen home court advantage from the Cavs, it・s obvious that both teams are savoring their roles as underdogs and making the most of their opportunities. Lebron James・ 49 point explosion wasn・t enough to deter the optimism of the Magic and the Nuggets have showed an equal amount of fight as they have gone toe to toe with the Lakers・ talented and deep roster.
 
If there is anything that world of sports will teach you it・s that you never want to count your eggs until they are hatched. While it may have been a forgone conclusion to some that the Lakers and Cavaliers would end up meeting in the Finals, their respected opponents obviously didn・t get the memo. The world of sports is full of surprises and underdog heroics and that just may be what is brewing right before our eyes. The only thing that is guaranteed, no matter which teams ends up making it to the next round, is the fact that it・s going to be very compelling watching everything play out from here.

Questions and Comments can be sent to Chris at Trimond@aol.com and www.Myspace.com/BoxingHarmony

 

 

 

More Hip Hop Sports
Comment
Rate: 	
Comment: 	
Secure Code 	
Secure Spam Blocker 	Type Secure Code:
	
