Cleveland Cavaliers lose to the Orlando Magic, 98-88, in Game 3 of 2009 NBA Eastern Conference finals
JAMES SCORES 41, BUT ORLANDO HAS CAVALIERS' NUMBER
Monday, May 25, 2009
Brian Windhorst
Plain Dealer Reporter

Orlando, Fla. -- History says the team that wins Game 3 in a tied series ends up winning the whole thing most of the time.

But a history lesson wasn't needed Sunday night; the naked eye is enough to tell the direction the Eastern Conference finals appear to be going. The Orlando Magic just seems to make the Cavaliers look like the un- derdog, their top- seed status and history- making regular season simply notwith standing.

The Magic out played the Cavs again in Game 3, winning, 99-89, to take a 2-1 se ries edge. The Cavs now need three wins in the next four games to reach The Finals. The Magic seem better equipped.

"We were able to overcome the dagger from the other night," Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said. "Our guys were ready to play."

LeBron James had another excellent game but it was not to the level his Game 1 and Game 2 efforts were in Cleveland.

That's certainly understandable, but with the circumstances it is just devastating to the Cavs' chances.

Unlike during the regular season and first two rounds of the playoffs, when his teammates constantly rose to his aid, it is not happening against the Magic. Mo Williams, Delonte West and on Sunday center Zydrunas Ilgauskas just aren't delivering. With much less margin for error, the recipe isn't working.

James scored 41 points and supplemented it with his usual nine rebounds and nine assists. But his jumper stayed back in Cleveland. He was just 2-of-16 shooting outside the paint and it doomed the Cavs. He got most of his points at the foul line, setting playoff-career records by making 18 free throws in 24 tries, in part of a free-throw fest as the teams combined for 86 of them.

Yet James ended up shooting 11-of-28 and the Cavs finished at just 37 percent, including a pretty telling 5-of-26 on 3-pointers, and that more accurately showed how the game went....