Cleveland Cav point guard Mo Williams said before game two last week that he did not believe that the Orlando Magic could beat his mighty Cavs four times in this series.
Well, Mo, we're halfway there! And guess what? Mo Williams has not even come close to seeing how good this Magic team is yet.
Sunday night's game three was about the prettiest ugly game I have ever seen.
Magic win 99-89.
A couple of observations about the victory:
...Dwight Howard accounts for 24 points and nine rebounds in just 28 minutes of work. He picked up his second foul at the 6:41 mark of the first quarter. Foul trouble is a recurring theme for Dwight in this series. Superman must understand that if he stays on the floor, we will win.
...Speaking of Dwight...He picked up his fifth technical foul of these Playoffs in game three. If and when he gets to seven techs, under NBA rules, he'll be suspended for one game. While I sincerely hope that the NBA rescinds Dwight's tech from game three (Joey Crawford t'ed him up for apparently jawing either towards a fan or toward the Cav bench), The Man of Steel has got to realize that he's now perilously close to costing this team and this town, perhaps, a shot at a trophy.
...While we're on topic...How about Sup from the free throw line? 14-19? Wow. You've got to believe that, somewhere, Cav great Mark Price was snickering.
...Give credit to Turk. On a night when he couldn't have thrown it in the ocean from the beach, Turk still made plays. He hit his one and only field goal at the 3:53 of the fourth quarter, a bucket that proved to be a back breaker for Cleveland. Turk finished with a double-double (13 points and 10 rebounds) on a night when he went 1-11 from the field.
...Rafer Alston set the tone early, when he tallied 11 of his 18 points in the first quarter. Rafer finished with 18 points and is looking like more of an All Star than his counterpart Mo Williams.
...The Cleveland Cavaliers continue to tell us that they are more than a one man band. Honestly, I believe them. You don't get to 66 wins playing one-on-five. But, I am convinced now more than ever that we are in their heads. Make that four wins in six games this season and 11 of the past 15 by Orlando over Cleveland.
...Mo Williams is shooting 32% (18-56) from the field in this series. If Williams' shooting continues its southward trend, this series is over Thursday night. Kinda looks like Mo should focus more on his game than predictions.
And finally, I have to give a shout out to you 17,461 Magic fans who showed loud and proud Sunday night at Amway. You rocked the house and you had a profound impact upon that victory.
Let's go get another one Tuesday night! 