Denver Nuggets: 4 keys to winning game 4

DENVER ¡X
Pick a spot, any spot in the Nuggets locker room on Sunday. Anywhere you turned, you found one common theme: optimism as they prepared for Game 4 of the NBA Western Conference Finals against the Los Angeles Lakers Monday night.

George Karl on Saturday's loss: "You take the technicals (three) and cheap layups out, we held them to 90 points, and if we hold them to 90 points, I think we'll win".

Carmelo Anthony: "We look forward to a long, grueling series with the Lakers."

The Nuggets had won 16 straight at The Pepsi Center and it had been a while since they were actually pushed to the brink in the fourth quarter of any game at 1000 Chopper Circle. After three quarters on Saturday night, that trend seemed to be on the mark. The Nuggets ended the stanza with a three pointer at the buzzer to give them a 79-72 lead.

Then, came the final 12 minutes. Usually, a period of domination----at home, especially for this team. However, as Kobe Bryant said Thursday night on the prospect of playing at a raucous Pepsi Center: "We don't have the best road record in the NBA for no reason." Apparently, he is not only The "Mamba" but now "Carnac" as well.

The Lakers owned the fourth quarter and as a result, currently own a 2-1 series edge. So what can Denver do to avoid a 3-1 series deficit?

Here are my four keys for game four.

Can you" bench" the bench? In the postseason, most teams shorten their bench and condense their rotation. Coaches greatly value each possession in a playoff basketball game and there are only so many players that they entrust with the ball or to be on the floor in those pressure-packed moments. However, in atypical fashion, this marvelous Nuggets run has been aided by the bench as much as any other factor. Though on Saturday, the reserves were rather.....reserved.

Guard Anthony Carter still seems in daze over his game one miscue. Linas Kleiza was the difference in the game two win but his biggest contribution on Saturday was a .......technical foul. Speaking of a "T", J.R. Smith somehow got one after hitting a three-point buzzer beater? Chris Anderson had a great first half, but was rendered rather ineffective in the second half.

Karl's crew did not get this far without their bench. They may not advance further if they don't rediscover themselves----and soon.

Think baseball, not basketball Much has been made of the Nuggets outside touch----or lack thereof on Saturday. They attempted 27---- yes---- 27 three-point shots. They made five. You know who brought up the 27 attempts in the locker room on Sunday? Kenyon Martin. Translation: Power forward saying "let's play with power, we are the more physical team." In other words, shoot the three when...... it's there..... instead of....... forcing it to be there.

Even Nuggets head coach George Karl himself, an avid Pittsburgh Pirates fan, used a baseball term to describe his team's go-for-broke mentality in the fourth quarter Saturday night. He said we "got caught up in the emotion of the moment with a great crowd, a great challenge, and we tried to hit too many home runs, rather than just take a single here, double here, and try to win the game that way."

Drive the Car-melo Simply put, your best player has to have more than 13 shot attempts. Carmelo was 4-13 and had just three points in the second half. He finished with 21 before he fouled out. As for L.A.'s best player? Bryant was 12-24 from the floor on the way to 41 points. The Lakers looked to Bryant virtually every trip down the floor in the final minutes on Saturday. The Nuggets should have done the same with Anthony, but were consumed with ill advised three point attempts to look his way.

Better than Bynum The word is that Lakers head coach Phil Jackson has given center Andrew Bynum the silent treatment. Apparently, Jackson put Bynum on the back burner after the 21-year old jogged back on defense in game two. Since then, he has played about as much as Steven Hunter does for the Nuggets. Yet, the matchup on the interior, remains at a standstill. Pau Gasol has been his usually underappreciated, dependable, and efficient self. Though Nene and Kenyon Martin have disappeared for multiple stretches. Karl even questioned their on court "maturity"...though to be fair he also included J.R. Smith and Carmelo in that assessment. Before the series, the interior game of Denver was seen as far superior to that of L.A. Yet, even with Bynum rendered a nonfactor, the Nuggets still haven't had the discernable edge. 