Jerry West Says Heart Disease Affected His NBA Days With Lakers 

May 19 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry West said he knew there was a problem when his heart was still racing after his days as a Hall of Fame basketball player were over.

For more than 40 years, West has been plagued by a heart disease called atrial fibrillation that causes anxiety, sleepless nights and mood swings.

West, whose silhouette is part of the National Basketball Association・s logo, wasn・t diagnosed with the condition until he was 42. Even then, West said, he didn・t know much about it. Then a front-office executive for the Los Angeles Lakers, he assumed stress, fatigue and irritability were part of the package.

：I suffered from this from the time I was in my mid-20s and really didn・t even know it,； West, who turns 71 on May 28, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview. ：There was so little information then about this disease and I・ve never really talked about it.；

Today, West is helping others cope with the condition. For the first time, he・s talking publicly about his struggles with atrial fibrillation as part of a national initiative to promote awareness about the disease, also known as AFib. West is joined as a spokesman by former U.S. Senator Bill Frist, who has two family members with the condition.

Approximately 2.5 million Americans are affected by the cardiovascular disturbance in which the upper chambers of the heart beat in a rapid and uncoordinated fashion, resulting in an irregular and frequently fast heart rate. It doubles the risk of death from heart-related causes and can increase the risk of stroke by 500 percent, according to the AF Stat Working Group.

West・s Playing Days

While the disease predominantly affects those over the age of 65, West experienced erratic heart rhythms during his playing days with the Lakers. He would occasionally have to breathe into a paper bag during games to keep from hyperventilating.

：It alters your lifestyle,； West said. ：You have mood swings, a hard time sleeping, anxiety, almost anything negative you can think. It was difficult enough to be a basketball player, but the best thing about it was all that adrenaline running through your body helped alleviate that because it would go away. You just don・t know when you・re going to get it and that・s the problem.；

West had a hand in eight NBA titles as a player and executive with the Lakers and orchestrated the trade that brought Kobe Bryant to Los Angeles. He said the condition forced him to leave the Lakers・ organization nine years ago.

West, who said he・s tried a number of drug treatments to control his heart rhythm, returned to the NBA in 2002 as head of basketball operations for the Memphis Grizzlies. He spent five years with the club and was voted the NBA・s executive of the year in 2004 before retiring for a second time in 2007.

：Frankly, I・m still trying to find a way to treat myself so I can have a better quality of life,； West said. ：I・m still active and like to work out. If that would be inhibited by this disease, I would not want to live my life very long sitting in a wheelchair. This is the first time I・ve really talked about it and I・m hopeful that it will (help) other people.； 