The Lakers smashed the Nuggets 119-92 in Game 6 to win the Western Conference Finals 4-2 and head into the NBA Finals as the favorite over Orlando, but the series against Denver wasn¡¦t always that easy.

The Lakers needed 18 fourth quarter points from Kobe Bryant and Trevor Ariza¡¦s late steal to seal the lid on a 105-103 victory in Game 1; they dropped a tough Game 2 at home, 106-103; L.A. responded with a gritty 103-97 Game 3 road win behind Bryant¡¦s 41 points; and they fell 120-101 in Game 4 to a highly-energized squad as the Nuggets evened the series at two.

But in the second half of Game 5, the proverbial light switch went on* in L.A.¡¦s collective head as witnessed by a 21-3 run that resulted in a 103-94 victory. It was almost as if Bryant and Phil Jackson had finally seen enough game tape to realize exactly what Denver was doing defensively, and had together figured out exactly how to beat it. Bryant could often be seen deliberately drawing extra Nuggets defenders to certain areas of the court before literally directing his teammates where on the floor to move so as to best expose an aggressive defense, and from then on, the Lakers coasted.
*Follow that link to read the Game 5 Running Diary.

Ditto in Game 6 ¡V the backs of the Nuggets were supposed to be pressed firmly against the wall ¡V when the Lakers played their best game of the playoffs*, dominating from the outset behind an especially brilliant Bryant, who scored 35 points on 12-of-20 shooting, handed out 10 assists and grabbed six boards in a complete floor game. Three letters: MVP.
*Follow that link to read the Game 6 Running Diary.

¡§It was very controlled, excellent game from (Bryant),¡¨ said Phil Jackson after the victory. ¡§Tonight was a game where we played at the highest level, shooting the ball well from all spots on the floor. I thought our collective energy was good. I thought our collective intelligence was good, and that seemed the most important thing at this time is being able to read the defenses, move the ball, get the ball in places where people can operate.¡¨

The Lakers took a five-point lead into the second quarter and used a 20-7 run to close the first half with a 13-point lead that they almost immediately pushed to 20 in the third quarter.

¡§We just got a read for what they were doing,¡¨ explained Bryant. ¡§I think that was the key. We just got ¡¥em beat ¡K It was the defense. And, like I said, we did a great job of reading that and finding the open man.¡¨

The lead would swell to 29 points late in the fourth as L.A. assisted on 28 of its 43 field goals (57.3 percent), made all 24 of its free throws (including 9-of-9 from Bryant) and 9-of-16 three pointers. The team victory was emphasized as five Lakers hit double figures, the bench scored 40 points and there were just three turnovers in the second half.

Pau Gasol was 1A to Bryant¡¦s numero uno, going for 20 points (on 8-of-12), 12 rebounds, six assists, three steals and a block in nearly 43 minutes. Not far behind was Lamar Odom, who put up 20 points (14 in the second half) and eight boards, while Trevor Ariza and Luke Walton proved a very productive small forward duo, combining for 27 points, five boards, three assists and two steals.

¡§Last two games, we really proved to ourselves and to everybody else that we can be an extremely high quality team, a team that deserves to be in the NBA Finals and is going for the NBA championship,¡¨ said Gasol. ¡§So that really, really felt good out there and we have to do more of that.¡¨

It certainly was a good way to head back into the NBA Finals, where L.A. would extend its winning streak to four games after capturing Games 1 and 2 against the Orlando Magic.