The Final Dime: Cavaliers 112, Magic 102

1. With the Cavaliers teetering on the brink of a devastating playoff exit, they needed one heroic performance to stay alive. On Thursday night, they got it.

For the second time in as many games at The Q, LeBron James took the team on his sturdy shoulders and willed the Wine and Gold to a win in Game 5 ¡V as the Cavaliers staved off elimination with the season-saving 112-102 victory over Orlando.

But unlike the first four games of the series, the league¡¦s reigning MVP got plenty of help. Mo Williams, Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Daniel Gibson had their best games of the East Finals ¡V and not a minute too soon.

As for the Chosen One, LeBron continued to have one of the finest playoff series in NBA history ¡V turning in his first triple-double of the 2009 postseason with 37 points, 14 boards and 12 assists. Before Big Z sank his first free throw with a minute to play in the fourth quarter, LeBron either scored ¡V or assisted ¡V on the first 29 points of the period.

¡§My guys, they had made shots through the first three quarters, so I knew it was going to be an opportunity for me to probably press the gas a little bit on the offensive end,¡¨ offered James. ¡§I always feel like myself, individually, I can always get going any part of the game.¡¨

¡§We have confidence in one another, we trust one another,¡¨ said Coach Mike Brown. ¡§And when have you a guy that's as great a player as LeBron, who has the type of trust and confidence that he has in the rest of his teammates, you are going to get some looks because he¡¦s going to find you.¡¨

James was 11-for-24 from the floor and 15-for-19 from the stripe, notching 17 points in the fourth quarter as the Cavaliers pulled away from the Magic after blowing a sizeable first-half lead.

After coming into Thursday¡¦s Game 5 as the eye of the series¡¦ storm, Mo Williams canned his first four shots of the night ¡V going 3-for-4 from beyond the arc in the first period, as the Cavaliers took a 17-point lead after one.

But as they had in each of the three games in Cleveland, the Magic chipped away at the Wine and Gold¡¦s double-digit bulge ¡V cutting the Cavs¡¦ edge to a single point by intermission. Three minutes into the second half, Orlando had improved their advantage to eight, 64-56, and the once-boisterous Q was eerily quiet.

But LeBron and Z keyed a comeback that saw the Cavaliers draw to within one by the end of the third. The Magic took one more lead midway through the fourth, but by then, No. 23 had built up too much steam to stop ¡V keying a late 18-6 run that had the Cavaliers thinking about one more stop in the Sunshine State.

Mo Williams became the first Cavalier besides LeBron to tally 20 points in the series ¡V busting out of his funk with 24 points on 7-for-14 shooting, including 6-of-9 from beyond the arc. Zydrunas Ilgauskas drained his first six shots and finished 6-for-8 for 16 points and Delonte West added 13 before leaving the game late in the fourth.

¡§(Getting off to a fast start) was huge,¡¨ said Mo. ¡§We have been talking about all series taking pressure off LeBron, and I think it¡¦s key for me and Delonte to be aggressive.¡¨

Daniel Gibson, the hero of the 2007 Eastern Conference Finals, had his best game of the postseason, going 3-for-4 from long-distance ¡V all in the second half ¡V to finish with 11 points.

The Cavaliers continue their quest to become the ninth team in NBA history to win a series after trailing 3-1 when they travel to the Magic Kingdom for Game 6 on Saturday night. 

2. LeBron is the first player to record at least 37 points, 14 boards and 12 assists in a postseason game since March 21, 1963 when Oscar Robertson had 41 points, 15 rebounds and 12 assists.

3. Delonte West left Thursday night¡¦s game with 3:33 remaining in the game due to a hip pointer. He will be re-evaluated on Friday morning when the team arrives in Orlando.

4. LeBron James and Mo Williams are now the NBA¡¦s highest scoring tandem in the postseason ¡V averaging 52.3 through 13 playoff games. The next-highest scoring duo is Denver¡¦s Carmelo Anthony and Chauncey Billups at 48.5 per contest.

5. It was a star-studded night at The Q for Game 5. But not everyone that appeared on Q-Vision got a warm ovation. Those who did were several members of the Browns ( Joe Thomas, Josh Cribbs, Brady Quinn, and Shaun Rogers) and Indians (Jhonny Peralta, Cliff Lee, Carl Pavano and Kerry Wood). The boo-birds were definitely out for the team the Tribe plays this weekend, the Yankees, including CC Sabathia, Alex Rodriguez, and Mariano Rivera. But biggest negative reaction, of course, was for Steelers QB, Ben Roethlisburger.

6. LeBron¡¦s triple-double on Thursday was his first of the 2009 postseason and fourth playoff trifecta in his career.

7. Including the regular and postseason, the Cavaliers are an NBA-best 16-3 following a loss.

8. With Mike Brown utilizing a smaller lineup for the second straight contest, Daniel Gibson got another good run ¡V scoring 11 points in 22 minutes off the bench. In his last two games, Gibson has averaged 9.5 points and is shooting .556 (5-9) from three-point range.

¡§(Orlando) kind of got used to seeing the same guys on the floor, but with me being on the floor, it was a different look for them,¡¨ beamed Gibson. ¡§They got lost a couple of times and I found the open spot and we needed those shots to go down.¡¨

9. The Cavaliers cracked triple-figures in consecutive playoff games for the first time since May 3-5, 2006 against the Wizards.

10. In their 17 trips to the postseason, the Cavaliers are now 43-25 at home and have won nine of their last 10 postseason games at The Q. 