Lakers Win Because of Kobe and Despite Carmelo

The game is portrayed as one of elegance and grace, ballet in Nikes. In truth pro basketball is a contact sport, huge men crashing into each other, shoving and pushing. They¡¦d just as soon knock down an opponent as they would knock down a jumper.

We weren¡¦t sure what to expect when the Lakers met the Denver Nuggets on Tuesday night. Other than there would be a lot of fouls. Oh, and that the Nuggets would try to intimidate a Laker team which had everyone bewildered. Including the Lakers themselves.

A few weeks ago, in our usual rush to judgment and with our monumental impatience, the NBA finalists had been decided, at least by people who have nothing better to do than express opinions.

It would be the Cleveland Cavaliers against the Lakers. It would be LeBron James against Kobe Bryant.

It still might be, although we are less sure. And to hear Kobe talk after the Lakers staggered past the Nuggets, 105-103, in the opener of the Western Conference finals, maybe the Lakers also were less sure.

Although the win, which seemingly halted the problems and the doubts created when the Lakers at times lacked direction and maybe lacked a little heart, probably changed everything.

Had the Nuggets been up 1-0 after a game on the Lakers¡¦ home floor, they would be in control. Jack Nicholson and the other swells in the $2,500 courtside seats would be distraught. But it¡¦s the Lakers up 1-0, winning a game of floor burns and bruised bodies, if not of bruised egos.

¡§They outplayed us,¡¦¡¦ said Lakers coach Phil Jackson, ¡§and we won the game.¡¦¡¦

Unlike a couple of those miserable performances against the Houston Rockets in the last series, when the Lakers needed the entire seven games to beat a team without its two main men, Tracy McGrady and Yao Ming.

The Lakers won, because they have Kobe Bryant, who scored 40 points, 18 in the fourth quarter. And because they have Trevor Ariza, who in the closing seconds made a steal that showed anticipation as well as agility.

They won despite Carmelo Anthony, who scored 39 for the Nuggets.

This is what you expect in the big ones, your best players at their best. And so it was with Kobe and Carmelo. One would score. Then the other. Bryant courageously tried to stop Anthony on defense. ¡§He¡¦s a bull,¡¦¡¦ Bryant would say in interviews carried on ESPN News.

A few days ago, after they had beaten the Rockets by 40 at home, the Lakers lost to the Rockets by 15 on the road. The probable matchup against the Cavs and LeBron seemed as far away as Mars.

The sharp knives were out, wielded by critics who justifiably thought the Lakers caved in. Even Kobe on Tuesday night felt compelled to use the word ¡§capitulated,¡¦¡¦ indicating he was no less disgusted than the rest of us.

There was no capitulation against the Nuggets, who while a lesser team than the Lakers have the paranoia necessary to want to succeed.

Denver is out to show something. The Lakers, on the other hand, are mostly worried about Showtime.

The Lakers are more than L.A.¡¦s team, they are L.A.¡¦s focus. There¡¦s no pro football franchise, if you don¡¦t count USC, albeit many people do. There are only the Dodgers, Manny-less at the moment but still winning, and the Lakers, a team of stars and of the Hollywood stars. Along with Nicholson, Denzel Washington, Drew Barrymore and Justin Timberlake were in attendance.

Every time the Lakers are on the court, especially post-season, it¡¦s less an athletic contest than a production number. You think the reviews were tough for ¡§Angels & Demons,¡¦¡¦ check them out after the Lakers have a bad night. The water cooler talk about Tom Hanks is no less catty than it is about Kobe or Pau Gasol.

Kobe is The Man. As opposed to The Manny. Bryant had his own troubles six years ago, but those are a distant memory. Now Kobe is an MVP ¡V last year. Now Kobe is a savior.

¡§I could score 35 a night if I want, but that¡¦s not something I¡¦m concerned with,¡¦¡¦ he said without bragging. ¡§I want to win a championship. Tonight, it was something we needed, but that¡¦s not my goal.¡¦¡¦

Jackson, the Lakers coach, agreed. ¡§We had very little else going for us besides Kobe,¡¦¡¦ he insisted. ¡§And at the end when we needed a basket he muscled his way through.¡¦¡¦

In pro basketball, you get physical or you get beat.