Los Angeles - Nearly invisible in the previous Western Conference final games, Lamar Odom picked the right time to show up.

Odom had 19 points, 14 rebounds and a playoff career-high four blocked shots as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the visiting Denver Nuggets 103-94 on Wednesday night to take a 3-2 lead in the physical series.

Due partly to a sore lower back suffered in the second round against Houston, the 6-foot-11 Odom had averaged just 7.5 points on a frosty 37 per cent field goal shooting through the first four games before emerging off the bench with his timely contribution.

'I had to suck it up,' he said. 'I couldn't pick the paper up anymore. I didn't want to answer the phone. I couldn't watch ESPN.

'I took it like a man, I just had to put my focus cap on, come out and just went after it.'

'When he's getting after it, and he's active we're a different ball club,' said Kobe Bryant who led the Lakers with 22 points and eight assists.

The top-seeded Lakers can close out the best-of-seven series Friday night in Denver, and book a spot in the NBA Finals for the second straight year.

'The intensity will be there,' Bryant said. 'What we have to do is execute, it's as simple as that. We have to be cold-blooded and execute.'

Spanish-native Pau Gasol contributed 14 points, 10 boards and five rejections, while Derek Fisher and Trevor Ariza had 12 points apiece for the Lakers, who outscored their guests 27-18 in the decisive final frame.

'It was a game that we knew we were going to have to earn and take,' Gasol said.

Carmelo Anthony scored 31 points, while Chauncey Billups and Kenyon Martin added 12 apiece for the Nuggets, who shot just 39 per cent for the game.

'I thought we played extremely hard tonight, but they won the basketball game,' Anthony said. 'You can't take nothing away from them.'

Anthony singled out Odom's play.

'Lamar, when he's out there, he's a mismatch, especially at the power forward,' he said. 'The way he played tonight, hit the glass, pounded inside. When he plays like that, they're a tough team.'

Afterwards, Denver coach George Karl complained about the uneven officiating, similar to way Lakers coach Phil Jackson did after Game Four, and was promptly fined by the league.

'It was a very difficult whistle to play, no question about that,' Karl said. 'Every player in my locker room is frustrated.

'This is too good of a series. It's too good teams competing that we're sitting here just confused by the whistle.'

The teams were knotted at 56-56 at halftime before the Nuggets took a 73-66 advantage midway through the third period.

However, Jackson inserted Shannon Brown and the speedy backup guard delivered with a layup and a fast break dunk over Chris 'Birdman' Andersen that got the sold out Staples Centre crowd into it

'I just tried to come off the bench and bring energy and help this team win the game,' Brown said. 'It's amazing what kind of team we can be when we play as a team, when each guy contributes and does what he's supposed to do.'

Odom and Bryant followed with three-pointers around one by Billups at the other end, and the game was again knotted at 76-76 entering the final frame.

There the Lakers opened on an 11-0 run to seize control. Gasol made a layup, Odom converted a three-point play and followed with a hook shot. Bryant made two free throws and Brown buried a 20-foot jumper as the lead swelled to 87-76 at the eight-minute mark.

Denver fought back, though. Linas Kleiza scored seven straight points, and Anthony added six in a 13-6 run to pull the Nuggets within 93-89 with 3:48 remaining.

Ariza converted a three-point play, but Anthony's layup cut the lead to 96-91. On the next play, Bryant rose up to shoot an apparent jumper. Instead, he zipped a pass to a wide-open Odom under the basket for a dunk and free throw after drawing the foul. Bryant added two free throws to make it 101-91.

Anthony's three-point play cut the lead to seven, but Fisher made two free throws with 38 seconds left to complete the scoring.

Despite the loss, the second-seeded Nuggets remain confident they can win at home and back in Los Angeles for Game Seven on Sunday, with a shot to advance to the NBA Finals for the first time in franchise history.

'If we're not confident and we don't think we can win both games, we shouldn't even go out and suit up Friday, because it would be a waste of time,' Anthony explained.

'Our confidence is good. We're excited about this. We're going home. We got a chance to win at home, and see what happens in Game Seven.' 