We are here to praise Thursday¡¦s great individual achievements.
Skip to next paragraph
Alex Wong/Getty Images

Kavya Shivashankar won the 2009 Scripps National Spelling Bee Thursday.

LeBron James¡¦s scintillating triple-double to keep the Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference finals.

And Kavya Shivashankar¡¦s brilliant spelling of ¡§laodicean¡¨ to win the 2009 Scripps National Spelling Bee.

We can connect the two: 13-year-old Kvaya¡¦s championship word means lukewarm or indifferent (primarily in religion), and we cannot be laodicean about LeBron, can we? Not when you score 37, hand out 14 assists, grab 12 rebounds and bear responsibility (via swishing or dishing) for 28 consecutive Cavs¡¦ points. Not bad when you¡¦re up against the Magic and Dwight Howard, a ¡§flat-out monster,¡¨ as TNT¡¦s Charles Barkley called him.

Still, whatever you say about the one-man, outtasight Game 5 King James Extravagana, but think about Kvaya¡¦s one-girl playoff performance: before nailing laodicean, she scored on ¡§hydrargyrum,¡¨ ¡§blancmange,¡¨ and ¡§baignoire.¡¨ That, my dear etymology fans, is Michael Jordan territory, maybe even a quadruple double.

And she did it without a LeBron-like courtside posse of A-Rod, C.C. Sabathia, Mariano Rivera, Big Ben Roethlisberger and Jay-Z, about whom we must ask: when he is at the Q, does he prefer that no one ask him how the Nets¡¦ proposed, but often-delayed, arena in Brooklyn is going?

And so, the Dream N.B.A. final matchup of LeBron and Kobe is still a possibility, and while not everybody wishes to ruin David Stern¡¦s high-rating June reverie ¡X Nike puppet vs. Nike puppet ¡X the Orlando Sentinel¡¦s Mike Bianchi has the audacity to suggest that the team-oriented Magic must defeat the LeBron-centric Cavs ¡§for the entire world of sports.¡¨

The entire world of sports is surely curious about umpire Tim Tichenor, up from Triple-A, who was behind the plate at the Hefty Bag Thursday nigth in Minneapolis overdoing his ¡§yerouttahere¡¨ swing (which is quite good, with a colorful follow-through; I¡¦d give it a 9). Top of the seventh: Boom! He ejected Twins catcher Mike Redmond for arguing a call at the plate. Boom! He ejected Twins Manager Ron Gardenhire for defending Redmond.

Bottom of the seventh: Boom! Tim the Thumb booted Red Sox catcher Jason Varitek for arguing over what he thought was a strike from Josh Beckett! And boom! Timmy T. booted Boston Manager Terry Francona.

Jerry Layne, the crew chief, defended Tichenor¡¦s actions, but nobody threw him out of the game.

Past evidence ¡X O.K., an incident from last season ¡X suggests that Tichenor doesn¡¦t mind exercising his Magic Ejection Thumb. Last August at the late Shea Stadium, Padres Manager Bud Black waved two fingers in the air to tell Tichenor he wanted to execute a double switch. Tichenor misintepreted Black¡¦s non-verbal communication, and, after an extended argument, he cleared the field of Black and his bench coach, Craig Colbert.

Back to basketball. Or to golf.

Jerry West ¡X retired Lakers superstar and former Lakers and Grizzlies g.m. whose silhouette is the N.B.A. logo ¡X is the new executive director of the Northern Trust Open at the Riviera Country Club in Los AngelesThis isn¡¦t a big surprise. Not to ¡§Mr. Clutch,¡¨ at least. He loves golf, and probably finds more peace on the course than he did trying to watch his teams play. And while news of his appointment didn¡¦t overshadow the Lakers-Nuggets Western Conference finals, it reminds us of less-celebratory Northern Trust news, when, a couple of months ago, TMZ.com reported that its sponsor, Northern Trust Bank, a recipient of $1.5 billion in TARP bailout money, had spent quite lavishly on entertainment at its most recent tournament.

The ever-watchful and zealous Congressman Barney Frank, whom we suspect isn¡¦t spending downtime from the House Fianncial Services Committee downloading those Nike puppets ads, demanded that the bank reimburse the government for the cost of its partying.

West, by the way, told ESPN, on the day of his anointment as a golf executive (that just doesn¡¦t sound right, does it?) that he would not mind if his logo silhouette were replaced by that of Michael Jordan.

In West¡¦s career, no one ever said, Let Jerry Be Jerry. And no one said, Let Mike Be Mike. (Although some said they wanted to Be Like Mike.) But in the world of Letting Manny Being Manny, there is a percolating kerfuffle about whether the Unusual Dodger, now under a 50-game suspension for not dodging the use of a steroid, deserves to be an All-Star.

ESPN¡¦s Buster Olney says Manny is not the most qualified candidate, that he¡¦ll barely have any stats to speak of by July 14. But he said it might not matter ¡X and he makes a neat comparison between the Manny candidacy and the peculiar sojourn of the one-time ¡§American Idol¡¨ contestant Sanjaya Malakar, who survived far longer than his talent should have allowed him thanks to Howard Stern and bloggers. Like Manny, Sanjaya has fascinating hair.
More Articles in Sports ? 