"King James" keeps Cavs alive, trail Magic 3-2 (Roundup) 

Los Angeles - LeBron James refused to let the Cleveland Cavaliers' season end.

League MVP James erupted for 17 of his 37 points in the final quarter, along with 14 rebounds and 12 assists, and the Cavaliers beat the visiting Orlando Magic, 112-102 on Thursday night to pull within 3-2 in the Eastern Conference finals.

'This was a big game for us,' said 'King James' after collecting his fourth career playoff triple double. 'It was win or go home.

'There's always a sense of urgency at this point when you're down and you're on the verge of elimination. I signed up to play for a long time, not to play with the kids and watch the Finals at home on TV. At this point you have to take the challenge and I did it tonight.'

The Cavaliers will look to level the best-of-seven series at Orlando on Friday night. The Magic, meanwhile, get a second shot to advance to its first NBA Finals since 1995.

Mo Williams scored 24 points with six three-pointers, Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 16 while Delonte West chipped in with 13 for Cleveland, which regrouped after blowing a 22-point first-quarter cushion.

'We had to worry about stops when it counted,' Williams said. 'That's what we did tonight.'

Turkish-native Hedo Turkoglu led Orlando with 29 points, while Dwight Howard had 24 with 10 rebounds before fouling out late in the game.

'They deserved to get this one,' Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said of the Cavs. 'As poorly as I thought we played, we still were there with chances to win and didn't get it done. We have to get ready to go on Saturday.'

Howard said the Magic must erase the defeat and come back strong.

'We lost tonight, it's over,' he said. 'We have to come out ready and defend our home-court. We bounce back well.

'I don't think there's any pressure. We just have to step up our intensity, especially at the beginning of the game. We didn't do it tonight, they got off to a big lead and we had to fight our way back.'

With their backs against the wall, the Cavaliers got off to a blazing start in front of the sold out crowd at Quicken Loans Arena.

Williams had 11 points, including three triples, and the hosts made 10 of their first 11 shots en route to a 34-12 lead. The Magic, however, answered with a 43-22 run from that point to pull within 56- 55 at halftime.

The teams battled evenly through the third quarter with the Magic carrying a 79-78 advantage into the final frame.

But then James went to work, scoring or assisting on 29 of the Cavaliers' 34 points.

'We gave him the ball in what we call 'the nail' and said get us some good looks 'big fella,' and he did just that,' Cavs head coach Mike Brown said. 'That's what great players do. They put the team on the back when that ball comes to them.'

'It was win or go home, so I knew I there was going to be an opportunity for me to press the gas a little bit on the offensive end,' James said.

The Cavaliers trailed 90-89 on a three-pointer by Pietrus with 6:48 remaining. However, Williams hit James with a bounce pass in the lane for the go-ahead layup, and the subsequent free throw after drawing the foul. He added a jumper and the lead was 94-90 with just under five minutes left.

After Daniel Gibson's second three-pointer of the period, James hit a jumper, then drove the lane into Howard's chest for a layup, that sent the All-Star centre to the bench with his sixth personal foul at the 2:22 mark. He converted the three-point play to open up a 101-93 advantage.

'I attack no matter who is in the paint, that's what I do,' James said. 'I know he's the defensive player of the year, but you just have to attack a guy like that.'

Pietrus countered with a three-point play, but James drained a jumper to maintain the eight-point edge. Moments later, James drove the lane again and found the cutting Anderson Varejo for a layup and free throw, making it 107-96 with 1:07 left.

Howard said the Magic must find a way to slow down James, averaging 41 points in the series.

'We have to have a better defensive effort on LeBron,' he said. 'It's just too easy for him, right now. He's catching it in the sweet spot and it's one dribble to the basket. We have to make it tougher on him.' 