This sportswriter is picking the Los Angeles Lakers to win the 2009 NBA Championship. Ok so that isn't really the boldest prediction ever, especially not at the end of the Western Conference Finals, but I'll stand by it. The Lakers will win it all.

The NBA has one of the most predictable playoff systems in professional sports. The concept of the best-of-seven series ensures that the best team will almost always win. After watching the playoffs thus far, I think the Lakers are that team.

The Orlando Magic currently lead the Cleveland Cavaliers 3-2. Assuming they can finish Cleveland off, I like the way the Lakers match up. Orlando wins with perimeter shooting and interior dominance from Dwight Howard. The Lakers win with Kobe Bryant and a massive front line. Howard has been a rock inside, averaging 20.4 points and 15.8 rebounds per game through the playoffs. Orlando's second-leading rebounder, forward Rashard Lewis has averaged 5.8. Howard matches up well against Gasol and Odom, but having to face them both, along with the physically imposing Andrew Bynum, would be a tough task for anyone. The Lakers simply have more depth along the front line allowing them to beat the Magic's main strength. Even if Hedo Turkoglu leads Orlando to another excellent series of perimeter shooting, the Lakers can match anyone in that category with Bryant and Derek Fisher consistently lighting teams up from behind the arc.

The Magic have had success against the Cavaliers because they have been able to isolate Lebron James and force him to try and win by himself. The same strategy would not work quite so well against Bryant and the Lakers. With more solid second and third scoring options, the Lakers force teams to stay honest on defense allowing Bryant to dominate one-on-one matchups.

If Cleveland does manage to come back and beat Orlando, I would still pick the Lakers to come out on top. The much-hyped match up of Bryant and James would receive the most attention, but the series would be decided by matchups like Gasol and Zydrunas Ilgauskas or Fisher and Mo Williams. The Orlando Magic have thus far exposed the Cavaliers for the one-trick pony they are. The Lakers would win this series with their depth.

Finally, the Lakers have one big advantage over either potential challenger, experience.

The Lakers are entering the Finals with virtually the exact same team that lost to Boston in last year's Finals. Bryant and Fisher probably have more playoff experience than anyone else in the playoffs right now. That will happen when you win three rings in a row. Head Coach Phil Jackson is one of the most accomplished coach in the history of basketball. Nobody has ever accused him of panicking in big games.
Experience and depth will make the difference for the Lakers and Bryant will finally get a ring without the help of Shaquille O'Neal. 

Read more NBA news and insight: http://www.hoopsworld.com/Story.asp?story_id=12806#ixzz15dCwYgv4