East Notebook: LeBron says he's feeling fine, thanks 

Cavaliers superstar LeBron James loves proving doubters wrong. Tell him there is something he can't do, and it only makes the NBA MVP more determined to pull it off.

Case in point: the opinion of many basketball experts that James is playing too many minutes and is carrying too much of the load for Cleveland to beat Orlando in the Eastern Conference finals.

"The Chosen One" respectfully disagrees.

"I was built for it, man," James said Friday after the team touched down in Central Florida. "I don't die down. I didn't die down at no point in the game last night. I wasn't tired, felt great.

"When you haven't seen something like that for a long time in this league, it is easy to say there's too much pressure on a guy. But I live for the moment. I'm OK with it."

So are the Cavaliers, who enter Game 6 this evening in another must-win situation to save their season. Orlando leads the series 3-2 and can advance to the NBA Finals with a victory at Amway Arena.

Cleveland fought off elimination Thursday in Game 5 with a 112-102 win at Quicken Loans Arena, but needed a Herculean effort from James to pull it off. He recorded his fourth career playoff triple-double with 37 points, 14 rebounds and 12 assists in 46 minutes -- all game-high figures.

"I only averaged 36 minutes a game throughout the regular season, so I knew in the playoffs it could bump up and I was ready for it," said James, who is averaging a mind-boggling 36.1 points, 9.3 rebounds and 7.3 assists in 41.2 minutes per postseason contest. "Throughout this series, I've averaged 40-plus minutes and it's felt like the same 36 minutes I played during the regular season."

Those comments are music to the ears of Cavaliers coach Mike Brown, who employed a new, highly effective offensive set from late in the third quarter on.

James initiated the offense in an isolation between the top of the key and the 3-point line. The other four players vacated the middle of floor and set up at their sweet spots, ready to shoot at any moment.

"Bottom line is they are going to have to come off somebody and they'll probably double-team LeBron there," Brown explained. "When that happens, we just have to make sure we knock down shots because we're going to get some good looks."

It worked spectacularly as James either scored or assisted on 32 straight Cleveland points -- and had 17 points, four boards and four helpers in the fourth period when the Cavaliers outscored Orlando 34-23 to pull away for the victory.

Mo Williams and Daniel Gibson combined to knock down nine 3-pointers, while that duo combined with fellow guard Delonte West to make 16-of-32 field goal attempts after failing to find the range for much of the series.

"At the top of the key, LeBron is in a position where the defense really couldn't help out," West said. "Anderson (Varejao) was moving constantly underneath the basket, which kept Dwight (Howard's) attention on Andy. So LeBron was free to just play playground basketball, going one-on-one, and he won that game."

Unfortunately for Cleveland, though, James has to steal two more games if the Cavaliers are going to come back from a 3-1 deficit and move on.

Yet, they remain a confident bunch, which is why Brown booked a Thursday late-night flight to Orlando for his team the day before it played Game 5.

"We feel like we can go on the road and get wins," Cleveland center Ben Wallace said. "We've been doing that all season. We just have to play our style of basketball. For the most part (Thursday), we played the way the Cavs know how to play.

"But the pressure is on us. We are down and we have to find a way to win."

BOOM, BOOM, POW

The 6-foot-11, 265-pound Howard fouled out of Game 5 late in the fourth quarter when the 6-8, 250 James scored on an "and-one" drive to the basket. The resulting collision would have knocked most players to the ground and, perhaps, to the trainer's room, but both Olympians emerged unscathed.

"It's two unhuman forces meeting in the air, that's what it is," West said of the mid-air mosh. "The two of them I would say are the next-generation human beings. You never know what's going to happen, but you know there is going to be contact. And there will be a lot of athleticism involved."

Howard has three disqualifications in the series, tying him with Varejao for top honors, while Cleveland center Zydrunas Ilgauskas has two. No other player has fouled out for either squad.

THE EYES HAVE IT

The Eastern Conference finals continue to be a huge success for TNT, averaging a 5.2 rating and 8.4 million viewers through four games, according to Turner Sports. Those figures are roughly 25 percent higher than last year's MLB league championship series and are 247 percent better than the 2009 NHL conference finals. ...

Orlando's 116-114 overtime win in Game 4 wound up as the most-viewed playoff game in history on cable television, drawing a 6.3 rating and 10.1 million viewers. It was the biggest audience for any NBA postseason broadcast since 2002 and the high-water mark for any cable program in the country this year (beating TLC's "Jon & Kate Plus 8" season premiere by 300,000 homes, according to Nielsen).

HISTORY LESSON

James' 36.1 scoring average currently ranks sixth in NBA history for a single postseason. Jerry West in 1965 (40.6), Elgin Baylor in 1962 (38.6), Baylor in 1961 (38.1), Michael Jordan in 1990 (36.7) and Jordan in 1988 (36.3) are ahead of him on the leader board.

All-time in the conference finals, James' 41.2 scoring average only sits behind West's 46.3 set in 1965. Wilt Chamberlain is third at 38.6 in 1964.

"I've said it all along that we are playing with history in the making," Cavaliers forward Wally Szczerbiak said. "LeBron is going to be the best basketball player ever to touch a ball. Being his teammate and part of his growth has been very special for everyone in this locker room and everyone that gets a chance to watch him play."

FEELING FINE

West proclaimed himself ready to play in Game 6 despite being forced out of the previous contest with a right hip pointer.

"I'm not quite sure when that happened, but I got a pretty nasty bruise," he said. "I feel great today. Got a chance to sleep in and take a long, hot shower, so there shouldn't be no problems."

LUCKY DUCKS

Magic coach Stan Van Gundy and Brown have been quick to discount their roles in the tightly contested series. The latest self-effacing comment came from the Cleveland coach, who chuckled as he said, "If their 3-point shooters make shots, Stan is a great coach. If they don't make shots, then I'm a great coach."

STAR POWER

Rap mogul Jay-Z was seated next to the Cavaliers bench for Game 5. The New Jersey Nets part-owner and James have been good friends for several years. Jay-Z (Shawn Carter) also gave congratulatory hugs to several players following the victory, including Williams. ...

Also in attendance were Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger and New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez, both of whom were loudly booed each time they were shown on the scoreboard. ...

Former Cleveland Indians and current Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia purchased several dozen tickets, but did not receive a warm welcome from the fans. Sabathia said he still roots for the Cavaliers, even though his pal Drew Gooden no longer plays for them.