The Final Dime: Magic 107, Cavaliers 106

1. They say a series doesn¡¦t really begin until a team loses a game on its home floor. For the Cavaliers and Magic ¡V the Eastern Conference Finals have begun.

The Cavaliers, who had been unscathed by adversity through the first two rounds of the 2009 postseason, finally got a taste of it on Wednesday night ¡V blowing a 15-point halftime lead and dropping a home heartbreaker to Orlando in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Finals.

The Wine and Gold set a postseason mark for winning all of their first eight games by double-figures, but after the Magic outscored Cleveland, 30-19, in the third quarter, a ninth straight blowout was obviously not in the cards at The Q.

Anthony Johnson¡¦s three-pointer gave Orlando its first lead early in the fourth quarter and the Cavaliers actually trailed through most of the period. But Delonte West¡¦s bomb from the left corner put the Cavaliers back on top ¡V 103-102 ¡V with 40.8 to play.

Rashard Lewis put the Magic back on top with a two-pointer nine seconds later, and after LeBron James' and-1 gave the Cavaliers a brief lead, put them back ahead to stay with a three-pointer with 14.7 remaining.

Delonte¡¦s next long-distance attempt drew front iron and LeBron forced a jump ball with one second remaining. Mo Williams snagged the tip out of mid-air and heaved it towards the basket, but the ball rimmed out and the Cavaliers dropped their first game of the postseason.

¡§I got a good look at it and that¡¦s all you can ask for,¡¨ lamented West. ¡§You practice that shot and you step up and take it confidently and it¡¦s either going to go in or it¡¦s not. It just didn¡¦t go in for me.¡¨

Wednesday¡¦s loss spoiled a herculean effort by LeBron ¡V who eclipsed his previous playoff high with 49 points, going 20-for-30 from the floor with a team-high eight assist, six boards, three blocked shots and a pair of steals.

¡§Nobody said it was going to be easy,¡¨ reasoned James. ¡§It's one game, and if we just look at it and just one game and we just move on to the next game, then we'll be fine.¡¨

Mo Williams followed up with 17 points ¡V one of five Cavalier starters in double-figures. Williams was just 6-of-19 from the floor, including a 67-foot heave to end the first half and send the sold-out Q into a frenzy.

Anderson Varejao finished 6-of-8 from the floor for 14 points and Zydrunas Ilgauskas doubled-up with 10 points and 10 boards. Delonte West added 11 ¡V including his late trey ¡V but was just 4-for-13 from the field.

The Magic had five players in double-figures as well, with Dwight Howard leading the way with 30 points. Hedo Turkoglu led both teams with 14 assists to go with 15 points and Rashard Lewis scored 12 of his 22 points in the fourth quarter ¡V going 5-for-5 in the period.

Overall the Magic shot 55 percent from the floor, going 45 percent from beyond the arc and 85 percent from the stripe. For the first time this postseason, the Wine and Gold were outrebounded, 36-33. 

2. For the first time this postseason, the Cavaliers allowed a team to break the 85-point plateau, although they¡¦re still holding opponents to just 81.3 points per contest so far this postseason ¡V tops in the NBA.

3. LeBron now has 26 career postseason games of 30 or more points and the Cavaliers are 19-7 in those contests. He¡¦s cracked the 40-point mark six times (4-2) in the playoffs. On Wednesday night, James set team records for points in a half (26), points in a game (49), field goals made (20).

4. Through the 2009 postseason, Mo Williams has been considerably better at home than on the road. At The Q, Mo is averaging 17.3 ppg on .449 percent shooting, including .362 from beyond the arc. On the road, he¡¦s averaging 12.3 ppg on .388 shooting ¡V going .346 from long distance.

5. Dwight Howard did his best Shaquille O¡¦Neal impression one minute into the first quarter when he followed a Courtney Lee miss with a two-handed dunk that brought down the shot-clock stanchion above the basket. The destruction caused a nine-minute delay while two portable shot clocks were rolled out to opposite baselines for the remainder of the first half.

6. LeBron is now 6-5 all-time in Game 1¡¦s for his career. In Game 1 wins, he averaged 30.0 points, 9.2 rebounds and 6.5 assists ¡V shooting .529 from the floor. In his four losses, James averages 21.4 points, 7.2 boards, 6.8 assists while shooting .412 from the floor.

7. There were several members of the Cavaliers pigskin counterparts in the house on Wednesday, including defensive linemen, Shawn Smith and Shaun Rogers, as well as living legend, Jim Brown. Former Masters champion, Mark O¡¦Meara, was on-hand, although odds are the Windermere, FL resident was pulling for the Magic.

8. The Cavaliers came into Wednesday¡¦s game with the lowest scoring bench in the 2009 playoffs and, unfortunately, they didn¡¦t get much on Wednesday night, either. Joe Smith notched five points on 2-for-3 shooting, but he was the only reserve to crack the scoring column.

9. The Cavaliers have now had long buzzer beaters to end the first half of all three Game 1¡¦s in this postseason, although Mo Williams¡¦ 67-footer at the buzzer takes the cake.

¡§It happens like that when you are having a tough night shooting the ball,¡¨ smiled Williams. ¡§You know, you find some kind of way make shots like that. I don't know.¡¨

10. Shaq called Magic coach Stan Van Gundy the ¡§Master of Panic.¡¨ But, based on his halftime locker room speech, he¡¦s perhaps also the Master of Motivation.

¡§(Van Gundy) told us at halftime, ¡¥we are all witnesses,¡¦¡¨ said Dwight Howard. ¡§That's what he said to us, and it really motivated us when said y'all playing like y'all witnesses. He has a great way of motivating all of us. And that right there, you know, brought some fire out of us.¡¨ 