Dictator's daughter to run for S Korean presidency

South Korea's ruling conservative party has selected the daughter of the country's slain former dictator Park Chung-hee, as the candidate for the December presidential election.

Given her huge lead in the polls, Park Geun-hye is on track to become the country's first female leader.

She received more than 80 per cent of the vote in the primary and is the first woman to be nominated by a major South Korean political party for the presidency.

Park, the daughter of Park Chung-hee who ruled the country from 1961 to 1979, says she'll be pushing for greater economic equality.

"We will make sure that small and medium companies and big corporations can coexist...We'll make sure the economically weak are given a fair chance," the 60-year old told cheering party members in her acceptance speech.

The gap between rich and poor in South Korea has widened in recent years, and opinion polls show younger voters have become disillusioned by the lack of permanent job opportunities.

Polls show Park is ahead of any of the declared liberal opponents by double digits and looks likely to return to the presidential Blue House 33 years after she left it in mourning for her assassinated father.

As well as promoting job security and welfare, Park has pledged to re-engage with North Korea and reward the impoverished and isolated state if Pyongyang shows it is serious about halting its race to obtain nuclear weapons.

She warned Pyongyang's new leadership that any attacks on South Korea would meet a strong response.

"I, Park Geun-hye, will not tolerate any action that damages our sovereignty or threatens our safety. We won't be content only with maintaining peace but we will work to establish a new framework for sustainable peace on the Korean peninsula and cooperation in North Asia," she said.

Park entered politics in her mid-40s to help "save" her country as it spiralled into economic turmoil at the height of the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, and has had three stints as the leader of the conservatives, winning the accolade "Queen of Elections" for a series of comebacks for the party.