Park stakes claim to make history in S. Korea

Seoul, Aug 20, 2012 (AFP) - Park Geun-Hye, the daughter of an assassinated dictator, will make history in male-dominated South Korea if her campaign to become the country's first female president succeeds.

Park, who Monday won the nomination of her conservative ruling New Frontier Party, lost both her parents to gunmen while she was still in her twenties but pressed ahead undaunted with her own political career.

Now 60 and a veteran politician, she enjoys high popularity with conservative and older voters nostalgic for the rapid economic growth under her father Park Chung-Hee, who ruled 1961-1979 after seizing power in a coup.

Park Geun-Hye is seen as standing a good chance of victory in the December 19 election and is ahead in opinion polls.

Korea University professor Lee Nae-Young cited her proven leadership skills, political experience and strong power base in her home province of North Gyeongsang.

But Lee cautioned that she is seen by many young, urban voters as an autocratic figure who does not communicate with ordinary people "probably because of her personal background".

Despite her privileged upbringing, Park has demonstrated a tough streak.

In 2006 an attacker at an election event where she was speaking slashed her face with a knife, leaving a wound that needed 60 stitches.

In this April's general election she impressed voters with her tireless campaigning, shaking hands till she had to bandage one wrist.

Park was born on February 2, 1952, in the southern city of Daegu, and was nine when her father became president.

He summoned her from graduate school in France to act as first lady after her mother was killed in 1974 by a pro-North Korean gunman aiming for her father.

She left the presidential palace after her father was shot dead by his spy chief in 1979 and began her political career in 1998 as a lawmaker in her home town.

In 2007, she narrowly lost the conservative party's primary to Lee Myung-Bak, who is constitutionally barred from seeking a second five-year presidential term.

The legacy of her father, who still receives mixed evaluations, was the source of her popularity and a limiting factor as well, said Korea University's Lee.

Park senior was widely praised for the country's dramatic economic development but reviled for his human rights record.

Park Geun-Hye, who in 2007 described her father's 1961 takeover as a revolution to save the country, has lately moderated her stance. In May she said "history will decide" whether it was a coup or a revolution.

She is also invoking the memory of her late mother Yuk Young-Soo, still fondly remembered by many as a wise and calm first lady.

Supporters praise Park, who never married and leads an intensely private life, for what they see as her calm and principled leadership. Opponents portray her as aristocratic and aloof.

Her restrained style reflects her secluded life as a privileged child in the presidential Blue House, said Kookmin University professor Cho Choong-Bin.

Her father's legacy has both pros and cons but complicates her efforts to broaden her power base beyond conservatives, he said.

Sejong Institute analyst Jin Chang-Soo said Park's main appeal is her strong-willed character and clean image.

She also has a track record as a skilled politician, helping her party secure strong electoral results in 2004, 2006 and this year, earning her the nickname "Queen of Elections".

She stresses "economic democratisation" and expanded welfare in a country with a growing wealth gap and high youth unemployment. The economy remains dominated by the mighty conglomerates fostered by her father.

North Korea has lashed out at Park, even though she has distanced herself somewhat from President Lee's hard line on cross-border relations.

"A dictator's bloodline cannot change away from its viciousness," its news agency said in April.