(LEAD) Park visits late president Roh's grave to promote nat'l unity

SEOUL, Aug. 21 (Yonhap) -- The ruling Saenuri Party's presidential candidate Park Geun-hye visited the grave of late President Roh Moo-hyun Tuesday as part of her efforts to promote national unity.

   After paying a visit to the National Cemetery in southern Seoul, the 60-year-old lawmaker went to Gimhae, 450 kilometers southeast of the capital city, to offer her respects to Roh. She stressed that the visit was made because the former chief executive represented a significant part of South Korean society.


Roh, who served as president from 2003 through 2008, has become an icon of the opposition camp since his suicide in May 2009. Moon Jae-in, the front-runner in the main opposition Democratic United Party's presidential primary race, was chief of staff to the late Roh while he was in office.

   Park, who became the first woman in South Korea's history to win a presidential nomination from a major political party on Monday, also met with former first lady Kwon Yang-sook and senior representatives from the Roh Moo-hyun Foundation.

This is her second visit to the grave, although her first attempt three years ago was thwarted by angry supporters of the late president.

   Roh, a progressive politician and former civil rights lawyer, took his own life after coming under investigation over allegations that his wife and son received money from a local businessman.

   The trip, following her visits to the graves of South Korea's first President Syngman Rhee, her late father and former President Park Chung-hee and former President Kim Dae-jung, earlier in the day, is in line with Park's pledge to push for unity that transcends the country's social divisions. The visits to the tombs of former presidents marks her first official activity as her party's presidential candidate.

   Political watchers said Park, who has the strong support of conservatives, is trying to send the message that she wants to be a unifying force in the country. They added that such measures could help her expand support among moderates ahead of the presidential race slated for Dec. 19.

   Related to the visit, the Roh Moo-hyun Foundation confirmed they were not notified in advance of the visit, but said they welcomed the visit by Saenuri's presidential nominee.

   The main opposition Democratic United Party, on the other hand, denounced the trip as a "political ploy" to win votes and called on Park to first express her remorse for past deeds carried out by her father, who took power through a coup in 1961.
