Park Geun Hye wins S Korea ruling party nomination for presidential race

[SEOUL] Park Geun Hye, whose father ruled South Korea as dictator for 18 years, has won the ruling party's presidential nomination, bringing her a step closer to her goal of becoming the country's first female leader.
Ms Park, 60, beat four other candidates to win 84 per cent of the vote in ballots cast by party lawmakers, non-elected members and citizens. The opposition has yet to name a candidate to contest the Dec 19 election and there is speculation that independent software magnate Ahn Cheol Soo will run.
The never-married eldest daughter of late leader Park Chung Hee, Ms Park must revitalise a party hurt by scandals and President Lee Myung Bak's plummeting approval ratings. She has signalled that she may depart from the NFP's economic policies to respond to public dissatisfaction over youth unemployment and rising income disparity.
"Winning the nomination was a fait accompli," said Park Won Hon, a political science professor at Seoul National University. "Her biggest challenge now is to broaden her fan base to include the youth vote, which will decide whether Park secures the victory or not."
This was Ms Park's second attempt at winning her party's nomination for president, after the primary in 2007. As Mr Lee's single five-year term comes to a close in February, he faces mounting discontent for his failure to deliver on election promises to boost economic growth to an annual 7 per cent and per-capita income to US$40,000 by 2017.
Instead, the global slowdown cut growth to 3.6 per cent last year and South Korea's jobless rate for those 15-29 years old was 7.3 per cent in July, more than double the national average of 3.1 per cent.
Ms Park, who became acting first lady at 22 after her mother was killed in a bungled North Korean assassination attempt on Park Chung Hee, has softened her support of her father's export-led growth policies. As demand falls in Europe and slows economic growth and exports, she has pledged to broaden welfare and offer subsidies to small and medium-sized businesses that create jobs.
She has promised to run a transparent government, building on the popularity she gained for leading the NFP to an unexpected win in the April parliamentary election. Party members including Mr Lee's elder brother and the speaker of the National Assembly have been prosecuted on bribery allegations.
Ms Park's rivals may include Mr Ahn, the chairman of anti-virus software maker Ahnlab Inc, whose business success and donations to charity have won him support from younger voters, and Moon Jae In, a human-rights lawyer with the opposition Democratic United Party who was jailed in 1975 for taking part in street protests against the rule of Ms Park's father.
Opposition parties tend to perform better when there is greater youth turnout, the National Election Commission said in a report that analysed the April 2012 parliamentary vote.
Mr Ahn closely trails Ms Park in public opinion surveys. The one-time medical doctor-turned CEO briefly overtook Ms Park last month, boosted by a spike in support after a July 23 television interview in which he expressed his interest in running for president, and the July 19 publication of his book Ahn Cheol Soo's Thoughts. He hasn't made any public appearances since. - Bloomberg