Park Visits Graves of Past Presidents, Including Kim and Roh

A day after she promised to become a president for ¡§100% of South Korea,¡¨ the New Frontier Party¡¦s presidential nominee Park Geun-hye took a step on Tuesday to show that she meant it ¡V by visiting the burial sites of all the country¡¦s former presidents, no matter where they stood on the political spectrum.

That included the sites of her father, Park Chung-hee, and two of his critics, Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun.

Ms. Park¡¦s campaign said she made the trek, which took her from Seoul to Gimhae, as part of a broader effort to promote national unity. At her party¡¦s convention on Monday, Ms. Park spoke in her nomination acceptance of trying to transcend the country¡¦s historic and regional political divisions.

Though the front-runner in national opinion polls, Ms. Park is likely to draw most of her support from the conservative party¡¦s stronghold in South Korea¡¦s southeast. One telling sign of how strongly she feels about her goal to cross barriers will be whether she campaigns in the southwestern Jeolla provinces, which tend to overwhelmingly support liberal and progressive politicians.

South Korean news accounts on Tuesday naturally focused on the graveside visit that represented Ms. Park¡¦s biggest crossing of the political divide ¡V Mr. Roh¡¦s site in Gimhae, near Busan.

Ms. Park met privately with Mr. Roh¡¦s widow, Kwon Yang-sook, after visiting his grave.

Conservative politicians like Ms. Park were prevented by Mr. Roh¡¦s loyalists from visiting after his 2009 suicide. Many of his supporters believed Mr. Roh was driven to kill himself by a prosecutors¡¦ investigation they felt was politically motivated.

But on Tuesday, her visit was welcomed by Mr. Roh¡¦s former chief of staff, Moon Jae-in, who is in position to become Ms. Park¡¦s main opponent in the Dec. 19 election. Mr. Moon is the front-running candidate for the nomination in the Democratic United Party, a race that will be decided late next month.

Mr. Moon told reporters, ¡§Her visit to the grave of President Roh Moo-hyun was a desirable thing for the unity of people. And I see it in a positive way. But I hope that her visit wasn¡¦t just a formal thing but a visit with sincerity to heal the wounds of the past and to seek to integrate society.¡¨

The DUP¡¦s official spokesman, Rep. Jung Sung-ho, said Ms. Park¡¦s visit to Mr. Roh¡¦s grave was a ¡§showy gesture¡¨ because she didn¡¦t provide a ¡§sincere apology or reflection.¡¨

However the political theater of the grave visits plays in public and media opinion in coming days, one thing is clear: Ms. Park is uniquely positioned to champion the theme of national unity.

Her opponents have been trying cast Ms. Park¡¦s leadership style as similar to her father¡¦s authoritarian methods. They are unlikely to visit Park Chung-hee¡¦s grave site in the spirit of overcoming the political divisions of the past.