Park Geun-hye wins ruling party nomination

Election likely to be a two-way race: Park versus Ahn or DUP candidate 
By Seong Han-yong, political correspondent
Park Geun-hye clinched the ruling New Frontier Party (NFP) presidential nomination on August 20. With this, the final race for the 18th South Korean presidency is expected to be between Park and an as-yet-undetermined opposition challenger.
Observers are seeing two possibilities for how the election will play out. The key variable here is software mogul Ahn Cheol-soo, whose decision on whether or not to run will have a major impact on the opposition・s fate.
One possibility is that Ahn will support the candidate from the Democratic United Party (DUP), the leading opposition party, in a race against Park. The other is that he will face off against Park himself, with backing from the DUP. The first scenario seems most likely in terms of party politics common wisdom. But objective consideration of the support ratings for the DUP presidential hopefuls suggests the second is also a possibility. Neither Ahn nor the DUP is likely to have a three-way race in mind.
With less than four months to December・s election, it is still unclear just who Park will be running against. The major variables are all in flux. In particular, some key factors that will directly determine the final opposition candidate decision remain in the dark.
Most crucial among them is the success or failure of the DUP primary. If the candidate selected next month surpasses Ahn in his approval rating, he is very likely to end up as the opposition candidate in December. There doesn・t appear to be any reason for Ahn not to support the victor, whoever he turns out to be.
Woo Sang-ho, a member of the DUP・s supreme council, predicted that a lot of the party・s supporters backing Ahn will switch their allegiance if the party・s candidate takes the lead in a two-way race against Park. This possible scenario has been one of the reasons the party leadership has avoided talking about Ahn and focused mainly on pumping up its challengers in recent weeks.
The problem is what happens if the candidate・s ratings don・t rise. Woo said a three-way race between his party・s candidate, Park, and Ahn would be a ：lost cause,； adding, ：We won・t know until after the DUP candidate has been chosen, but we・re steeling ourselves for an opposition candidate consolidation.；
Lee Cheol-hee, head of the Dumun Political Strategy institute and a figure intimately acquainted with the inner workings of the DUP, had a different prediction.
：The DUP could easily find itself being carried along by the situation,； Lee said. The possibility is that if the DUP・s chances of a presidential win look slim after the Chuseok holiday in late September, DUP lawmakers could defect en masse and try to turn things around with a new party led by Ahn - a scenario described as the ：October shakeup.；
Lee predicted that if a new party is formed, its participants could include not only representatives from civil society, academia, and the reform wing of the Unified Progressive party, but also former lawmakers Kim Sung-sik and Jeong Tae-keun, who left the Grand National Party (predecessor of the NFP) prior to the general elections. If there are more defections by DUP lawmakers, Ahn might end up as Park・s eventual opponent, he said.
The second key variable is whether or not Ahn actually decides to run. He has been fairly quiet since the July 19 release of his book ：Ahn Cheol-soo・s Thoughts； and a July 23 appearance on ：Healing Camp；, a popular television talk show. In the preface to his book, he talked about ：whether to take on the role of a responsible politician or continue lending strength to the world・s changes as one intellectual,； but nothing has surfaced to suggest that he has chosen either of those two paths. He has shown few signs of trying to muster supporters, or of founding a new political party.
Associates of his have continued to maintain that the so-called ：Ahn Cheol-soo phenomena； doesn・t necessarily coincide with support for Ahn himself. This would suggest that he still has yet to make a decision on whether to run. His final choice appears likely not to come until around Chuseok (Sept. 30), when the DUP will have picked its final candidate and its level of public support can be gauged.
A few other factors may have an indirect influence on the opposition・s decision. Opinion poll results are very likely to be affected by Park・s actions now that she is the official candidate: whether she makes major changes in the hopes of reaching more voters or continues to behave self-righteously and surround herself with cheerleaders.
Finally, there is the economy, which is predicted to drop off gradually in the months leading up to Dec. 19. A major drop increases the changes of an opposition win. And it isn・t something Park or the NFP can take artificial steps to prevent.