S.Korean candidate visits ex-president's grave

SEOUL, Aug 21, 2012 (AFP) - The presidential candidate of South Korea's ruling conservative party Tuesday visited the grave of a former left-leaning president as part of efforts to promote national unity, her spokesman said.
The visit by Park Geun-Hye to the grave of Roh Moo-Hyun came a day after her landslide victory in the New Frontier Party's primary.
Park, the daughter of assassinated strongman president Park Chung-Hee, is the first woman picked by a major Korean party to contest the top post.
Park burnt incense and bowed her head in front of the grave of Roh, who held office from 2003-8. She prayed briefly at his home village of Bonghwa in the southeast of the country, TV footage showed.
¡§This is the first step to open an era of grand national unity as candidate Park revealed in her nomination speech,¡¨ her spokesman said.
Roh committed suicide by leaping from a cliff near his retirement village in 2009 after being investigated in a corruption scandal.
Critics said state prosecutors turned the probe into a national circus by leaking details before they had secured evidence.
Opposition parties at the time urged conservative President Lee Myung-Bak to apologise for Roh's death, describing the investigation as politically motivated.
Moon Jae-in, the likely presidential candidate of the main opposition Democratic United Party (DUP), was once Roh's chief of staff.
Park also met former first lady Kwon Yang-sook and senior representatives from the Roh Moo-Hyun Foundation.
Analysts said Park, who is strongly backed by conservatives, wants to signal that she hopes to be a unifying force and win the support of moderates before the December 19 election.
The DUP denounced her visit as a political ploy and said she should first express remorse for the deeds of her father, who seized power in a coup in 1961 and was assassinated by his spy chief in 1979.
Park Chung-Hee won wide respect for transforming the poor war-ravaged nation into an economic juggernaut, but is also reviled in some quarters for his human rights abuses.
An opinion survey conducted Monday put Park comfortably ahead of the DUP's Moon in a hypothetical two-candidate race with a 51-40 margin.
But she polled just behind Ahn Cheol-Soo, a popular left-leaning software entrepreneur, in an assumed one-on-one competition.
Ahn has not formally declared his intention to run for president. If he does, it is unclear whether he will stand as an independent or join the DUP.