Park wins ROK conservatives' presidential nomination

Republic of Korea's ruling conservatives picked Park Geun-hye, the daughter of the country's late dictator Park Chung-hee, on Monday as their candidate for December's presidential polls, putting her on track to become the country's first woman leader.
Park, the daughter of Park Chung-hee who ruled the country from 1961 to 1979, won her New Frontier Party's presidential primary, easily beating four male candidates by winning 84 percent of the vote in the race to succeed fellow conservative Lee Myung-bak, whose mandatory single term ends in February.
Smiling and clad in a blue shirt and black trousers, Park's win at her third attempt to become her party's candidate was greeted by the theme music from Chariots of Fire as she pledged greater economic equality.
"We will make sure that small and medium companies and big corporations can coexist ... We'll make sure the economically weak are given a fair chance," the 60-year old told cheering party members in her acceptance speech.
The gap between rich and poor in the ROK has widened in recent years, and opinion polls show younger voters have become disillusioned by the lack of permanent job opportunities.
Polls show Park is ahead of any of the declared liberal opponents by double digits and looks likely to return to the presidential Blue House 33 years after she left it in mourning for her assassinated father.
As well as promoting job security and welfare, Park has pledged to re-engage with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and reward the impoverished and isolated state if Pyongyang shows it is serious about halting its race to obtain nuclear weapons.
She warned Pyongyang's new leadership that any attacks on the ROK would meet a strong response.
"I, Park Geun-hye, will not tolerate any action that damages our sovereignty or threatens our safety. We won't be content only with maintaining peace but we will work to establish a new framework for sustainable peace on the Korean Peninsula and cooperation in North Asia," she said.
Complete dominance
The victory came as no surprise, as Park's complete dominance in pre-election polls had long overshadowed her rivals, including Gyeonggi Governor Kim Moon-soo, former Incheon mayor Ahn Sang-soo and former presidential chief of staff Yim Tae-hee.
"I will build an economy where growth, welfare and job creation create a virtuous circle," Park said in the victory speech. "I will make sure to give the less privileged equal opportunities."
Such policy pledges are almost indistinguishable from those of her liberal rivals, indicating an attempt to reach out to young voters and city dwellers less thrilled about her.
Instead, Park enjoys unrivaled popularity among conservative voters and old-timers, which helped the scandal-ridden Seanuri Party win a surprise victory in tightly contested parliamentary elections in April.
Observers say Park's image evokes nostalgia among her supporters for the country's economic rise under her father's 18-year rule which is still subject to partisan debate.
The junior Park recently defended her father's 1961 military coup as the "best possible" choice that helped modernize the country, copping criticism from liberals and progressives.
Her view on the issue is likely to haunt her on her way to becoming the country's first female leader.
"Are we going to keep talking about the past when we are faced with so many challenges?" Park asked at a news conference on Monday, brushing off a question about her stance on her father's legacy.
Her potential rivals include Moon Jae-in of the main opposition Democratic United Party and software mogul Ahn Cheol-soo, who has yet to announce his presidential bid.
The presidential election will be held on Dec 19. President Lee, whose five-year term ends early next year, is barred by the constitution from running for re-election.
Reuters-Xinhua