Ex-Dictator¡¦s Daughter Nominated for South Korean Presidency

SEOUL, South Korea ¡X A former dictator¡¦s daughter who cited Queen Elizabeth I of Britain as her role model became the first serious female contender for South Korea¡¦s presidency on Monday when she was chosen as the governing party¡¦s candidate for the election in December.

Park Geun-hye, a daughter of President Park Chung-hee, who ruled South Korea from 1961 until his assassination in 1979, is the first woman and the first child of a former president to become the presidential candidate of a major political party in South Korea.

Ms. Park, 60, won the nomination of the Saenuri Party by a huge margin, gathering 84 percent of the votes during a party convention. The remaining ballots were split among four other rivals.

¡§I will open an era of grand national unity,¡¨ she said in a speech after winning the race, identifying a divide between regions, generations and the rich and poor as a main challenge for the next president.

In 2007, Ms. Park lost the presidential nomination of her party, then in opposition, to the current president, Lee Myung-bak, whose election returned conservatives to power after two consecutive liberal presidents: Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun. Mr. Lee is barred by law from seeking re-election.

Seeking to retain power, the conservatives confront the best and worst of their legacy in Ms. Park¡¦s candidacy. Her father is the godfather of conservatives, and his twin bequests of economic growth and political repression still divide South Koreans.

Under Park Chung-hee, the country soared from the ashes of the 1950-53 Korean War and industrialized itself while maintaining a staunchly anti-Communist stance against North Korea and cherishing its military alliance with Washington. For older South Koreans, especially those in her father¡¦s home province, Gyeongsang in the southeast, his name is enough for them to vote for Ms. Park.

But under Mr. Park, the government also persecuted dissidents, often framing and torturing them as Communist subversives. Many of the victims are now opposition leaders.

His economic policy helped a handful of family-controlled and politically connected business enterprises grow into the so-called chaebol conglomerates, like Samsung and Hyundai, which spearheaded the country¡¦s export-driven economy but were accused of squeezing smaller businesses at a time of a widening gap between rich and poor.

Mr. Park also banned rock music, miniskirts for women and long hair for men.

Liberals, who seek to retake power, trace their roots to a pro-democracy movement against Mr. Park and subsequent dictators. They champion reconciliation with North Korea.

The main opposition Democratic United Party is scheduled to select its presidential nominee next month.

Ms. Park¡¦s aides said she needed to connect with younger voters, those who fret over rising youth unemployment and widening income disparity and who do not remember her father¡¦s leadership. On Monday, she pledged to broaden welfare and fight corruption, which has marred the image of Mr. Lee¡¦s government and her own party. She has also indicated that she would mend relations with North Korea, which have chilled under Mr. Lee. During a television debate this month, Ms. Park depicted Elizabeth I, who reigned as British queen from 1558 till 1603, as her role model.

¡§She saved her country from the verge of bankruptcy and turned it into a nation where the sun never set,¡¨ Ms. Park said. ¡§Because she knew misfortune, she knew how to care for others.¡¨

Like the Virgin Queen, as Elizabeth I is sometimes called, Ms. Park has never married and is often credited with saying that she was married to the nation.

Ms. Park abandoned her studies in Paris and served as acting first lady at 22 after her mother was killed in 1974 in an assassination attempt aimed at her father. After Park Chung-hee was assassinated by his spy chief in 1979, she disappeared from public view. Then, in 1998, with South Korea in economic crisis and people hankering for her father¡¦s charismatic leadership, she entered Parliament, saying she would ¡§save¡¨ the country.

Ms. Park cultivated her image as a principled and steely leader, saying that she learned those values from her father. She traveled to North Korea in 2002 to meet its leader, Kim Jong-il. During her three stints as the leader of the conservatives¡¦ party, she demonstrated a skill in rallying support.

But critics called her Princess Geun-hye or notebook princess for her privileged upbringing and her reported reliance on prepared scripts. Her father¡¦s legacy has also dogged her, with the opposition demanding that she clarify her stance over her father¡¦s 1961 military coup. In 2007, she called it a ¡§revolution to save the nation.¡¨ In July, she said the coup was ¡§my father¡¦s best and inevitable choice.¡¨

Another obstacle to her candidacy, however, is her father¡¦s career as an officer in the Japanese Imperial Army during Japan¡¦s colonial rule of Korea from 1910 to 1945. Anti-Japanese sentiments rooted in the occupation run deep in Korea. Chung Sye-kyun, a member of the Democratic Unity Party who is running for his party¡¦s presidential nomination, said last week, ¡§The daughter of the Japanese Army lieutenant should never become our president.¡¨

Political analysts and surveys say that Ms. Park¡¦s biggest rival in the December poll will likely be Ahn Cheol-soo, a university dean and vocal critic of the existing political parties, all mired in corruption scandals. Mr. Ahn appeals to young voters and urban professionals who care as much about welfare as about economic growth, the guiding principle of conservative policy makers since Mr. Park¡¦s time.