(LEAD) N. Korea trying to interfere with S. Korean presidential election: minister

SEOUL, Aug. 17 (Yonhap) -- North Korea is trying to interfere with South Korea's presidential election in December as the communist country maintains a hostile posture toward its southern rival, Seoul's defense minister said Friday.

   Defense Minister Kim Kwan-jin made the remarks at a meeting with ruling Saenuri Party officials, citing "rare" moves by North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.

"(Kim Jong-un) is trying to exercise control over the regime by taking such steps as visiting a military unit for the first time in 73 days," the minister said, referring to an inspection trip earlier this month that was widely interpreted as a morale booster for North Korean soldiers ahead of South Korea's annual military drills with the United States.

   Seoul and Washington have made clear that the military exercise, scheduled for Aug. 20 through Aug. 31, is defensive in nature, but the North has consistently claimed it is part of a broader plan to invade the communist country.

   The minister did not elaborate on how North Korea would try to affect South Korea's presidential election.

   Also at the meeting, South Korean Unification Minister Yu Woo-ik said he is still skeptical about what some analysts claim as a sign that Pyongyang has moved forward on reforms.

   Kim Jong-un's recent dismissal of army chief Ri Yong-ho and his use of American cultural icons such as Mickey Mouse and other Disney characters fueled speculation the 28-year-old could be moving toward reform.

   "It's still early to conclude that (actual) changes are taking place based on a few signs," Yu said. "However, there's no reason to ignore those signs either."

   The government and the ruling party, meanwhile, said Seoul could consider offering flood aid to North Korea after the impoverished country was hit hard by a typhoon and heavy downpour that caused floods.

   Pyongyang claimed 210,000 people were displaced by the string of natural disasters.

   "Seoul is carefully assessing damage in the North and if it concludes there is a need to extend assistance, it can consider such a move then," a working level Unification Ministry source said.

   He stressed that for the moment, nothing has changed in South Korea's policy toward its northern neighbor.

   Policymakers halted all aid to the communist country after it was determined that North Korea torpedoed a South Korean warship in the Yellow Sea in March 2010. The sinking resulted in the death of 46 sailors.

   The official, in addition, said that the ministry is looking favorably on a move by 21 lawmakers to visit the Kaesong Industrial Complex just north of the demilitarized zone to mark the completion of a road and bus station.

   The road and station were built with Seoul's support and will make it easier for North Korean workers to reach the industrial complex where South Korean companies make various labor-intensive products.
