Moon: Let The Sun Shine In

Moon Jae-in, the former aide to President Roh Moo-hyun who polls show is leading the race for the Democratic United Party presidential nomination, said Friday that if he wins the presidency he¡¦ll take South Korea back to his former boss¡¦ policy of few-questions-asked aid to North Korea.

In a press conference at his campaign headquarters, Mr. Moon rejected current President Lee Myung-bak¡¦s policy of providing economic assistance only after Pyongyang takes steps to end its pursuit of nuclear arms.

He noted that Mr. Roh ¡V who carried on the previous president Kim Dae-jung¡¦s Sunshine Policy ¡V produced progress on both economic development in North Korea and denuclearization via the diplomatic process with four other countries known as the six party talks.

¡§On the one side, through the six party talks, the resolution of nuclear issues was pushed ahead while, on the other side, we worked on the improvement of our relationship with the North,¡¨ Mr. Moon said. ¡§The relationship between North¡¦s nuclear issue and economic cooperation is something that can be done together and can expedite each other.¡¨

Mr. Moon joined his main DUP opponents, Kim Doo-kwan and Sohn Hak-kyu, in vowing to stage a summit with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Eun as quickly as possible. Mr. Moon suggested holding it on June 15, 2013, the anniversary of the first inter-Korean summit in 2000.

When asked how his policy toward North Korea would differ from the leading candidate in the ruling New Frontier Party, Park Geun-hye, Mr. Moon said, ¡§I don¡¦t know deeply about Park¡¦s North Korean policy, but, for generations, the New Frontier Party¡¦s policy was confrontational to the North.¡¨

He was harshly critical of Mr. Lee¡¦s policy and indirectly blamed the president for the deaths of 50 South Koreans killed in North Korean military attacks in 2010.

¡§Just as a reminder, during [Mr. Roh¡¦s term] there was not a single military conflict with the North. Not a single citizen was victimized,¡¨ Mr. Moon said. ¡§But after Lee Myung-bak took over the office, precious lives of young people where sacrificed through the Cheonan warship sinking and Yeonpyeong island shelling. The Lee administration completely failed South-North relations, not to mention bringing the situation to only a step away from becoming a war and showing its complete incapacity in national security. With the New Frontier Party¡¦s North Korean policy, the South and North relationship cannot make a single improvement.¡¨

Mr. Lee¡¦s policies towards North Korea grew more severe after the 2010 attacks. For Mr. Moon to reverse them and turn the South¡¦s money spigots back on for North Korea, he¡¦ll first have to confront the anger that remains with some South Koreans over those incidents.

Asked about his strategy for doing that, he said:

¡§I would first give words of comfort to the victims. I respect the judgment of the Ministry of National Defense about the sinking of the Cheonan (that found North Korea responsible). But many experts raise doubts and people show distrust about the result of government¡¦s investigation. People¡¦s rational doubts need to be explained by experts. If it¡¦s necessary, I think an additional investigation is needed.¡¨

¡§Yeonpyeong was a clear provocation. It shouldn¡¦t happen again. We should firmly stop North Korea from provoking. But on the other hand, we also need institutional measures to perfectly block any accidental provocation that can happen in the Yellow Sea.¡¨

One solution he said is to return to the declaration made at the end of Mr. Roh¡¦s summit with Kim Jong Il in October 2007 that designated the Yellow Sea as a peace zone and joint economic development area. Mr. Roh¡¦s defense secretary resisted that portion of his deal with Pyongyang, however, and Mr. Lee didn¡¦t pursue it further after taking office in February 2008.