Park likely to sweep ruling party's presidential primary

Former Saenuri Party leader Park Geun-hye is expected to score a landslide victory in the ruling party's five-person presidential primary race set to come to an end this week, party officials and watchers forecast Sunday.

Saenuri is scheduled to hold a national convention on Monday to pick its candidate for the Dec. 19 presidential election on the basis of voting by party members and citizens and opinion polls over the weekend.

Voting began at 251 polling stations across the nation at 6 a.m. and was scheduled to end at 9 p.m. Sunday. The ruling party's nominee is decided by a combination of party delegate votes (which accounts for 20 percent of a candidate's final score), ordinary party member voting (30 percent) and voting open to the general public (30 percent). The results will be combined with a separate opinion poll of some 6,000 citizens, which will account for the remaining 20 percent.

The contest has never been close, and few doubt Park will emerge victorious, as she enjoys broad support from across the party and consolidated her standing after rebuilding the once-beleaguered party and leading it to a widely unexpected victory in April's parliamentary elections.

With Park way ahead of the others, the primary race has largely been about who will be the runner-up. The four others are Yim Tae-hee, former chief of staff to President Lee Myung-bak; Gyeonggi Province Governor Kim Moon-soo; former South Gyeongsang Province Governor Kim Tae-ho; and former Incheon Mayor Ahn Sang-soo.

"I hope the primary concludes successfully and paves the way for the party's fresh start," Park told reporters after casting a ballot at a polling station in southern Seoul.

Watchers predict that Park will be able to garner at least 70 percent of the votes, setting a new party record in the area.

In event of Park's win, she will become the first female presidential candidate of a major political party. As the eldest daughter of the late president Park Chung-hee, she will also become the first offspring of a former president to become a presidential candidate.

The main opposition Democratic United Party (DUP) also has yet to pick its candidate for December's presidential election. Major candidates include Moon Jae-in, a former chief of staff to late President Roh Moo-hyun; Sohn Hak-kyu, a special advisor for the party and former South Gyeongsang Province Governor Kim Doo-gwan.

With the launch of the DUP's presidential primary just six days away, Moon is leading other candidates in various opinion polls by showing an approval rating of around 30 percent, compared with the 10 percent range for the other candidates.

Also considered a potential opposition candidate for the December poll is Ahn Cheol-soo, a software entrepreneur-turned-professor, who is widely popular, especially among young Koreans, due largely to his clean and upright image. (Yonhap)
