Park set to sweep Saenuri primary

The ruling Saenuri Party will announce the winner of its presidential primary today by combining the results of an opinion poll and votes cast Sunday by its party members and ordinary citizens across the country. 

Pundits say they are absolutely certain that Rep. Park Geun-hye, former interim leader of the conservative party, will be declared the country・s first woman to run for president at a party convention to be held at Kintex in Ilsan, Gyeonggi Province. 

They point out that Park, the eldest daughter of the late President Park Chung-hee, has maintained a wide lead over her rivals throughout the intra-party race that kicked off on July 21. 

A recent survey of 3,750 by the pollster Realmeter revealed that Park enjoys a support rate far greater than any of the presidential hopefuls within the governing party despite a slew of accusations against her. 

When asked to select the person who deserved to win the Saenuri Party・s ticket for the Dec. 19 presidential poll, 48.7 percent of the respondents chose Park, who has come under criticism over a money-for-candidacy scandal and the death of Chang Joon-ha, a prominent dissident. 

The only other contestant to have earned a double digit support was Gyeonggi Province Governor Kim Moon-soo. He has an approval rate of 10.8 percent, followed by former Incheon Mayor Ahn Sang-soo with 3.2 percent, Yim Tae-hee, former chief of staff to President Lee Myung-bak, with 2.7 percent and Rep. Kim Tae-ho with 2.6 percent. 

Party insiders note that South Korean athletes・ stunning performance at the London Olympics this summer and President Lee・s recent visit to Dokdo have helped her cement a landslide victory in the ruling party's five-person presidential primary race. 

They predict that Park will be able to garner at least 70 percent of the vote, setting a new party record.

They claim that Park has managed to minimize the negative fallout from an alleged acceptance of bribes by her aides in return for a proportional lawmaker seat and other accusations because much attention has been paid to the Olympics and Dokdo. 

Some say Park・s high approval rating within her party can also be partly attributed to the media frenzy over Ahn Cheol-soo, a possible presidential contender for the opposition camp. 

The medical-doctor-turned IT mogul repeatedly made headlines by implying he may join the presidential poll. He has also been under public scrutiny after the National Election Commission banned his charity organization・s involvement in the upcoming election. The media has also slapped him over his alleged misconduct and hypocritical remarks in the past. 

The Saenuri Party・s standard bearer is decided by a combination of party delegate votes which accounts for 20 percent of a candidate's final score.

The voting by the rank-and-file party members and non party members accounts for 30 percent, respectively. 

The results will be combined with a separate opinion poll of some 6,000 citizens, which will account for the remaining 20 percent.

The ruling party completed the opinion survey and voting at 251 polling stations across the nation Sunday.