Ruling Party Presidential Nominee Park Geun-hye to Visit YS & Lee Hee-ho

Park Geun-hye says she is determined to become a president for 100-percent of South Korea that can embrace both the conservatives and the liberals. 
On Wednesday, she is set to pay a courtesy visit to former President Kim Young-sam and the widow of late former President Kim Dae-jung, Lee Hee-ho. -- Both Kim's, the most prominent democracy campaigners during the country's military dictatorship until mid-1980s, had opposed the 18 year authoritarian rule of Park's father, late former President Park Chung-hee. 
Park Geun-hye's campaign staff say Park is seeking to champion the theme of national unity by going out of her way to meet with former leaders from the other side of the political spectrum. 
Just one day earlier, Park visited the gravesites of past presidents including her father Park Chung-hee as well as liberal Kim Dae Jung and Roh Moo-hyun. 


[Interview : Park Geun-hye, Presidential Nominee
Saenuri Party] "At the burial sites of former presidents, I am reminded of the sacrifices they made for the good of this country. And I tell myself that I should also selflessly commit myself to work for the nation."

The main opposition Democratic United Party's Moon Jae-in, who could become Park's main opponent in the December presidential election, welcomed Park's courtesy visit to the grave of President Roh Moo-hyun. 
Conservative politicians like Park herself had been prevented from visiting the grave by Roh's loyalists who believe that Roh killed himself in 2009 because of a politically-motivated investigation by state prosecutors. 

Meanwhile, the DUP presidential candidates, now down to four after South Jeolla Governor Park Joon-yung's withdrawal, are preparing for primary elections set to start this Saturday in Jeju.
The candidates will tour the nation and compete in primaries in 13 different regions. 
The final DUP nominee to run against Saenuri's Park Geun-hye could be determined as early as September 16th. 
Kim Yeon-ji, Arirang News.
