Opposition elders call on Ahn Cheol-soo to play role in presidential race

Korea's opposition camp elders on Thursday urged software entrepreneur-turned-professor Ahn Cheol-soo to play a role in the upcoming presidential race. 

In the roundtable meeting attended by such notables as Seoul National University (SNU) emeritus professor Paik Nak-chung and Ham Sei-ung, a Roman Catholic priest and social activist, the elders group made clear it is time for Ahn to take action to help the opposition win the Dec. 19 election.

Ahn, a medical doctor who founded AhnLab, the country's largest computer anti-virus company, supported an opposition candidate in last year's by-election for Seoul mayor and is widely viewed as a contender for the country's top elected post. 

His clean and upright image has generated strong public following, especially among young Koreans, and he is currently the only opposition contender who is running neck-and-neck with Rep. Park Geun-hye, the presidential candidate for the ruling Saenuri Party. 

Ahn, however, has yet to formally announce his intentions regarding the presidential race, other than to publish a best-selling book and appear on a national TV talk show.

"We have no intention of pushing Ahn to declare his intention to run for president, but it is past time for him to contribute to the victory of a democratic hopeful," said a joint statement released after the gathering held in the National Assembly.

It stressed even if Ahn, the dean of the Graduate School of Convergence Science and Technology at SNU, is not picked as the eventual opposition candidate, he has to take responsibility for harnessing the so-called "Ahn Cheol-soo phenomenon" to assist the opposition. The phenomenon refers to widespread demand for a "new face" and fresh leadership style, and is fueled by the public distrust of the country's established political parties and their inability to address social woes.

The disillusion affects all parties, including the main opposition Democratic United Party (DUP), which has not picked its presidential candidate.

They also said that Ahn, who has drawn fire for his perceived indecisiveness and aversion to critical public exposure, should better explain his views and accept verification for his past and future goals.

"This step can be taken before he makes a formal bid," they pointed out.

On criticism that Ahn's popularity is a mirage, they stressed that judging by how long it has lasted, his popularity and what it stands for has substance.

Paik told reporters after the meeting that if Ahn announces now that he does not want to run for president because he is not confident, it will not benefit the DUP hopefuls in any way.

"Elders want Ahn to play a role and raise public interest whether he becomes the opposition's candidate or plays a supporting role," the professor said.

Related to calls made by the elders group, Ahn said in talks with senior citizens in Chuncheon, about 85 kilometers east of Seoul, that he is listening to what people are asking of him and he actually met with Paik.

Earlier in the day, Ahn's spokesperson Yoo Min-young, said the dean is both listening and conveying his own thoughts on the issues raised, and said once this process is complete, he will make a decision on his future course of action.

Ahn, meanwhile, said that the visit by Rep. Park Geun-hye to the grave of late President Roh Moo-hyun was a step in the right direction. Park, the presidential candidate for the ruling Saenuri Party, made a surprise visit to the grave in the southeastern part of Korea a day after she won her party ticket on Monday.

The professor then added that he applauded the stance taken by Rep. Moon Jae-in, who was Roh's chief-of-staff, to welcome Park's visit, stressing that such a stance is what the general public wants from politicians.

Moon is leading in the polls among the main opposition DUP and expressed a desire to work with Ahn. The opposition party is expected to pick its presidential candidate on Sept. 16.(Yonhap)