DUP¡¦s primaries

A group of lawmakers affiliated with the main opposition Democratic United Party sponsored a special lecture by Buddhist Ven. Pomnyun on Wednesday, three days ahead of the first in a series of open presidential primaries. The lecture drew such big shots as Rep. Park Jie-won, floor leader of the party.

The lecture spoke volumes about where the liberal opposition party was headed ahead of the December presidential election, with Ven. Pomnyun regarded as one of the key mentors to professor Ahn of Seoul National University, who is expected to declare his bid for the presidency sooner or later. Moreover, the party is calling on Ahn to join a final contest between him and the winner of the primaries for a joint candidacy.

A primary is not just a contest for presidential hopefuls. It is also an event through which the party attempts to promote solidarity among its members, creating rapport between them and the nomination contestants and, by doing so, paving the way for winning the presidential election. But Ahn, more liberal than conservative in his policy orientation, has stolen the show even before the party launches its first primary on Jeju Island on Saturday.

No wonder the party¡¦s approval ratings have hit rock bottom and morale has plummeted among its members and supporters, many of them undoubtedly wondering what good will come out of the ill-fated primaries, which will continue until Sept. 16. The party and its leadership have no one else but themselves to blame.

According to a survey by the pollster Realmeter in late December, the Democratic United Party was ahead of the ruling Saenuri Party, albeit by a statistically insignificant margin of 0.1 percentage point ¢w 30.6 percent for the DUP and 30.5 percent for the conservative ruling party. But its lead was reversed shortly after the April 11 general elections ¢w 33.8 percent for the DUP and 43.6 percent for Saenuri. The DUP¡¦s approval ratings have since dropped below the 30 percent mark.

Another serious problem with the party is that not as many as it has targeted are applying to vote in the open primaries. The party aimed at registering up to 3 million people as eligible voters during a month-long registration period lasting until Sept. 4. Now the number of people that have applied for voting is approaching 600,000. If this trend continues, the final number will fall far short of the target. 

As Ven. Pomnyun said, the primaries, which are scheduled to be successively held in the major cities in the nation, are not likely to draw much attention from the electorate. ¡§How many outsiders would come to what is perceived as a ¡¥banquet for your family only?¡¦¡¨ he asked. The electorate is probably more interested in what happens after the primaries.

Much of the blame should be laid on Rep. Lee Hae-chan, chairman of the party, and those holding high party posts, who, since their election on June 9, have made little effort to breathe vitality into the lethargic party. Instead, their main concern has been focused on the proposed selection of a joint candidate from between the party¡¦s presidential nominee and Ahn. No wonder the party¡¦s approval ratings are dismally low ¢w 29.1 percent on July 30, the lowest since its inception last December.

In contrast, Ahn has maintained a high level of popularity among the electorate. He has been neck and neck in approval ratings with Rep. Park Geun-hye, who was recently selected as the presidential nominee of the Saenuri Party. As one commentator put it, the popularity he has gained with no support from a political party is an ¡§unprecedented, extraordinary phenomenon¡¨ in the history of Korean politics.

It would be risky to predict who will be elected president, given the high level of volatility that is found in Korean politics. Yet, it would be safe to say there is little chance that any of the contestants for the opposition party¡¦s nomination, none of them coming close to Ahn or Park in popularity, will win the election on his own.

That may look pathetic to the party¡¦s loyal, traditional supporters. But the party¡¦s leadership, together with the nomination contenders, will now have to ponder the terms under which to conduct post-primary negotiations with Ahn.