Software Mogul Challenges S. Korean Politics as Vote Looms

After trailing in polls for months, South Korea・s opposition is being tempted by popular support for a political neophyte as a decision looms on its candidate for president in December elections. The maverick・s attraction as an outsider may also be his biggest vulnerability.

Ahn Cheol Soo, founder of South Korea・s biggest antivirus software maker, for a time overtook ruling-party candidate Park Geun Hye in polls after a single television appearance on July 23. The 50-year-old, who has yet to declare his candidacy, is riding a wave of dissatisfaction over slowing growth, a widening income gap and failure to stoke domestic demand.

Picking Ahn would set up a battle of political experience - - Park, 60, is a veteran legislator and daughter of the nation・s longest-serving dictator -- against the type of independent appeal that Ross Perot offered in the U.S. two decades ago to voters disenchanted with established candidates. Ahn・s challenge would be learning how to convince lawmakers, as he pushes a program that features dismantling industrial groups・ cross- shareholdings and economic engagement with the North.

：Ahn has so far done the opposite of what a politician would do and has approval ratings politicians dream of,； said Jaung Hoon, a professor at Chung Ang University in Seoul who has analyzed the nation・s politics for more than two decades and written a book on its experience with democracy. ：His lack of experience in the political scene is his greatest appeal but eventually it may be his downfall. Even if he surrounds himself with veteran politicians and bureaucrats, he will have to direct them and it・s unclear that he would know how.；

Anti-Establishment
A one-time medical doctor, Ahn says his position as an outsider is an advantage, distancing him from the ：outdated； practices of the nation・s dominant parties. Perot tried a similar strategy in the U.S. in 1992, surging in polls at a time of legislative gridlock, before he eventually finished third, behind George H.W. Bush and the winner, Bill Clinton.

Like Perot, Ahn built his fortune in technology, founding Ahnlab Inc. (053800) in 1995. He currently has a 29 percent stake in the business, worth 365 billion won ($320 million), according to Yu Min Yeong, Ahn・s personal spokesman.

President Lee Myung Bak, 70, ends his five-year term in February and is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election. A former chief executive officer of Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. (000720), Lee has seen support slide since his 2007 victory after failure to deliver on a campaign pledge to boost wage growth and an aborted effort to enact a second round of tax cuts in three years for the chaebol, as the nation・s industrial groups are known.

Weakest Record
Lee bequeaths an aging society with its lowest population growth since the Korean War, and the weakest average economic expansion during a presidential term since the start of an enduring democracy in the 1980s, International Monetary Fund data show. The nation・s richest 20 percent earned 7.86 times more than those in the bottom 20 percent last year, the biggest margin since Statistics Korea began publishing the data in 2006.

Elections in the past year have underscored increasing public angst, with voters in April producing a narrowly divided legislature and in October opting for an independent who was backed by Ahn for mayor of Seoul, the capital.

Now, Ahn himself might run for office. The Ahnlab chairman released a book last month, ：Ahn Cheol Soo・s Thoughts,； laying out his economic and national-security agenda. He declined a request for an interview.

Nomination Contest
：It・s pretty clear that Ahn intends to run for president,； Lee Hae Chan, head of the main opposition Democratic United Party, told reporters July 23. The party is scheduled to pick its candidate by Sept. 23. Its current main declared candidate is Moon Jae In, 59, a human-rights lawyer and one-time chief of staff to former President Roh Moo Hyun.

Moon, jailed in 1975 for joining street protests against the rule of Park・s father, is polling third behind Park and Ahn, giving the opposition incentive to consider any declaration of interest by Ahn. An Aug. 13-17 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter put support for Ahn at 31 percent, trailing Park・s 35.9 percent. Moon had 11.3 percent in the survey of 3,000 people, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 1.8 percentage points.

Ahn called in his book for a restoration of ：welfare, justice and peace,； and advocated weakening the grip of the chaebol on the nation・s economy. Along with banning conglomerates・ cross-shareholding, Ahn would limit their investments in subsidiaries. While family-run companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. (005930), LG Group and Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) have been at the core of South Korea・s economic development, Ahn says they stifle small and medium-sized enterprises.

previous12