Does forward Chris Bosh belong? Can guard Dwyane Wade and forward LeBron James, both so used to dominating the basketball on offense, co-exist? Can the Heat win with those three doing a majority of the scoring?

For much of the Heat's closely-watched and dissected regular season, the answer was yes.

But the Heat suffocating teams in the postseason is not the same Heat who finished a respectable 58-24 during the regular season.

    BOX SCORE: Heat 101, Bulls 93 (OT)
    PHOTO GALLERY: Best images from the NBA playoffs
    FULL SCHEDULE: Upcoming conference finals games

This is a different Heat team, one on a mission, locked in defensively and able to score ¡X not at will, but when necessary.

Miami is one victory from a trip to the NBA Finals after holding off the Chicago Bulls 101-93 in overtime in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals Tuesday.

Game 5 is Thursday in Chicago (8:30 p.m. ET, TNT).

So far, it has been an impressive run through the East for the Heat.

For all the criticism James took for not being able to produce in big moments, he is loudly putting doubts to rest.

James scored 23 of his game-high 35 points in the second half, including seven in the fourth quarter and six in overtime. He played a game-high 49 minutes, 23 seconds and added six rebounds, six assists, three blocks and two steals.

¡EWith the Heat trailing 69-63 early in the fourth quarter, James had a rebound, scored a layup, delivered an assist and made two free throws in 9-0 Heat run.

¡EHis layup and foul shot with 2:10 left in the fourth quarter put Miami up 83-82.

¡EHis first basket in overtime, a left-handed shot, gave Miami a 93-89 lead, and his second, a 17-foot jump shot, made it 97-91.

James also guarded Bulls guard and MVP Derrick Rose for much of the fourth quarter and overtime. Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said he didn't even ask James to guard Rose. James didn't ask Spoelstra either. The All-NBA first-team defensive selection just did it.

"That's as tough a cover you can have in this league," Spoelstra said.

Rose again struggled down the stretch, going 1-of-8 from the field in the fourth quarter and overtime. He missed one of two free throws with 1:10 left in the fourth quarter that would have given the Bulls an 86-85 lead. Rose also missed the final shot of regulation, and the fourth quarter ended 85-85. Rose did not score in overtime.

"It's extremely hard where a 6-8 guy can easily defend you," Rose said, who finished with 23 points on 8-for-27 shooting with seven turnovers.

Though Rose has struggled late in games, Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau defended his superstar.

"Listen, Derrick Rose, I wouldn't want to have any other guy," Thibodeau said. "I'm with that guy all the way. He's a great player, a great competitor and I have great faith in him."

What seemed like a quiet night for Wade turned into a strong finish. He had eight points in the first half but none in the third and fourth quarters.

"I think I was the only person in the arena happy we were going to overtime. ¡K I knew I have five more minutes to make up for the first 48," Wade said.

He had six points in overtime, including a difficult 19-foot baseline jumper giving Miami a 91-88 lead, and came up with a huge block on Rose with 23.9 seconds left in overtime.

"We reminded him in one of the final huddles this was his time to make game-saving plays," Spoelstra said.

It was a play that spotlighted Miami's stellar defense. James dove for the loose ball and got it to swingman Mike Miller.

"It's whatever it takes at that point," James said.

Bosh had 22 points and six rebounds and hit a 16-foot jumper with 1:14 left in the fourth quarter

Part of the reason this is a different Heat team is because, well, it is a different team. The lineup the Heat expected to see on the court so much this season ¡X Wade, James, Bosh, Miller and forward Udonis Haslem¡X was not on the court so much because of Haslem's foot injury and Miller's thumb injury.

But that's the lineup Spoelstra went with for all of overtime. Wade, James and Bosh combined for all 16 of Miami's overtime points.

Miller and Haslem, who led the Florida Gators to the 2000 NCAA championship game, were pivotal, too. Miller scored 12 points, including nine in the fourth quarter. He had not made a three-pointer in this series until the second quarter of Game 4. He also had nine rebounds.

Haslem has provided an emotional boost since returning from a torn ligament sustained Nov. 20. He missed the rest of the regular season, and the Heat's medical staff told Spoelstra not to expect Haslem to return this season.

"But UD was so stubborn that he kept on moving forward and put together a target date," Spoelstra said.

He did not play against the Philadelphia 76ers in the first round and played three ineffective minutes against the Boston Celtics in Game 4 of the conference semifinals. He has been productive against the Bulls. He scored just two points but had nine rebounds.

"Now when it counts, they've both been able to contribute," Spoelstra said.

Chicago has lost three in a row for the first time this season. "No excuses, no excuses. Give them credit, they battled hard. It's a tough loss right now," Bulls forward Joakim Noah said.

Eight teams have come back from a 3-1 deficit since the 1946-47 season. The Phoenix Suns in 2006 were the last when they beat the Los Angeles Lakers. It has not happened in a conference finals since the Boston eliminated Philadelphia in 1981.

The Bulls held Miami to 42.7% shooting, but the Heat relied on and got small but important plays from role players. In addition to Miller and Haslem, backup point guard Mario Chalmers hit two three-pointers and finished with nine points.

"Both teams were clawing. If you were a fan of the game, it was a great game," Wade said "This is (about) will, and both teams showed that. We just made the plays at the end to pull away."

