MIAMI 멪 Center Joakim Noah wasn몭t the only Bulls player to let his emotions get the best of him in Game 3 on Sunday against the Miami Heat.

Forward Luol Deng, who had another tough fourth quarter in Game 3 멪 two points on 1-for-4 shooting 멪 blamed himself for getting irked by some calls that didn몭t go the Bulls몭 way in their 96-85 loss.

몬몬Some of the calls got to me a little bit,몭몭 Deng said Monday. 몬몬I몭ve got to do a better job of not allowing that. I felt there were some calls we should have gotten that we didn몭t. That몭s how it goes sometimes.몭몭

The Bulls were called for 24 fouls; the Heat was called for 17. The Bulls shot 21 free throws; the Heat shot 29. And even though Deng said the officiating hasn몭t been one-sided, the Bulls are starting to speak up.

Deng was called for a near-phantom foul on a three-pointer by LeBron James in the first quarter. After a timeout later in the quarter, coach Tom Thibodeau had an animated discussion with referee Steve Javie. Seven seconds after play resumed, Javie called a cheapie on the Heat몭s Mike Miller on a rebound.

몬몬I saw the replay [of the foul against James],몭몭 Deng said. 몬몬I몭ll just let everyone be their own judge. I don몭t think the refs are favoring one side, but I don몭t think if I shot that three and [James] hit me that I would have gotten the call. But that몭s not where you win or lose the game. That몭s just part of the game.몭몭

Stat of the day

For what it몭s worth, Game 3 marked the first time the Bulls lost this season when Javie (4-0 previously), Ron Garretson (5-0) or Mike Callahan (5-0) was officiating.

Omer update

Backup center Omer Asik, who suffered an ankle injury in
Game 3 and went scoreless with one rebound in 15 minutes, is day-to-day, Thibodeau said.

몬몬We몭re hopeful,몭몭 Thibodeau said. 몬몬He몭ll get treatment [today]. [Trainer] Fred [Tedeschi] will take him out on the court to see if he몭s having any problems, and hopefully he몭ll be ready to go.몭몭

If Asik can몭t go, Kurt Thomas will back up Noah, Thibodeau said.

Inside presence

The Heat has been vulnerable inside this season, but Joel Anthony and Udonis Haslem have shored up that deficiency to give the team an edge in Games 2 and 3.

Anthony had five blocked shots in 29 minutes in Game 3 and has eight blocks in the series. Haslem has mucked up the lane, drawing two charging fouls.

몬몬We just have to play smarter,몭몭 Bulls forward Taj Gibson said. 몬몬You know Anthony is going to attack every shot that몭s coming toward the rim. We knew that all year long. We haven몭t shied away.

몬몬We have to make better decisions when it comes to getting in the lane. We have to make the smart pass or take the smart shot. And hopefully it can go a little better our way.몭몭

The closer?

It몭s no secret the Heat has contained Bulls star Derrick Rose in the series, especially in the fourth quarter. Rose is a combined 1-for-6 in the fourth quarter of the last two games. He was 23-for-43 in the fourth quarter of the series against the Atlanta Hawks.

몬몬The important thing is for him to make the right play,몭몭 Thibodeau said when he was asked if he wanted to see Rose take more than two shots in the fourth quarter of a close game. 몬몬I몭m not going to measure if he몭s taking two shots or 10 shots.

몬몬If he몭s double-teamed and the second defender is on him, I want him to hit the open man. If he몭s single-covered and open, I want him to shoot.몭몭

