Even though the Miami Heat won Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Chicago Bulls decisively, there were causes for concern on both sides. Both Derrick Rose(notes) and Dwyane Wade(notes) are still struggling offensively and the Heat once again lost the battle of the boards. More importantly, the Chicago Bulls need to solve the Heat's defense and start making open shots or this series could quickly slip out of reach.

5. Thibs' Bench Management

Taj Gibson(notes) has been extremely impressive this postseason. Not only is he scoring 7 points and collecting 4 rebounds in just under 18 minutes, he's also been one of the top five defenders in the playoffs, period. He's fifth behind Derrick Rose, Carlos Boozer(notes), Joakim Noah(notes) and Luol Deng(notes) in Plus/Minus and is unquestionably a spark on his team. In Game 1, he had two of the best dunks of the year, including the posterization of Dwyane Wade. Coach Thibobedeau should probably consider playing him more.

Also, Thibs should give two former Heat players, Kurt Thomas(notes) and Rasual Butler(notes) some minutes. Thomas is an experienced big who can hit 10 to 18 foot shots consistently when Rose gets doubled on the pick and roll while not giving up too much on boards. Rasual Butler is a decent three point option should Bogans' and Korver's offensive struggles continue.

4. Battle of the Boards

Like I said after Game 1, the Heat don't need to win the rebound contest to beat the Bulls. The Celtics' Big Three proved that you can be regularly outrebounded as long as your team field goal percentage is high. In other words, you don't need as many possessions if you're not missing that much. That was the story of Game 3, when the Heat lost the battle of the boards 41 to 32 and were crushed on the offensive glass 13 to 5, but still won the game.

The discrepancy in offensive rebounds was largely due to Boozer's aggression on the glass and the Heat will need to keep him out of the restricted area if they don't expect to shoot 51 percent as a team again. Also, it should alarm the Heat that they had nine less boards than the Bulls while Chicago's best rebounder, Joakim Noah, only had 5 boards. Expect Noah to bring the type of intensity that yields 12 to 15 rebounds in Game 4.

3. Dwyane Wade

D-Wade shot 6 for 17 in Game 3. That's an embarrassing 26 percent from the field. Everyone has a bad day, but we still have not witnessed an eruption from Wade this series. The Heat really have been following in the Celtics footsteps by exploiting different match-ups in different series and sharing the scoring load. That said, Dwyane Wade should never be just "good" offensively for an entire series. He's been spectacular defensively, along with LeBron and Taj Gibson, some of the best stoppers left in the postseason, but he's way too talented not to explode for 40 one game this series. And, yes, Keith Bogans(notes) has done a good job on him, but he's also missed a number of lay-ups, floaters, fade-aways and uncontested mid-range jumpers he usually makes. He even botched a dunk recently.

Basically, I think D-Wade is due. If he gets hot in Game 4, this series is over.

2. Derrick Rose

D-Rose wasn't in the LeBron/D-Wade class in terms of efficiency this season, but he wasn't this horrific either. His 7-23 from the field in Game 3 is a disastrous 23 percent. I don't think the Bulls can beat the Heat if Rose shoots under 40 percent, let alone 30. Part of his problem has been the stifling Heat defense, but he's also missed more jump shots than usual.

I expect Rose to be spectacular tonight. Unfortunately for him, however, the Bulls' season depends on it.

1. Bulls' Offense

The main difference between the Miami Heat and the Chicago Bulls is that while both teams are elite defensively, only one is elite offensively. The Heat have three top ten offensive players and reliable scoring options, while the Bulls only have one.

In order to make up for this disadvantage, the Bulls need an efficient offensive performance from Derrick Rose, solid contributions from both Deng and Boozer and open looks by Korver, Gibson, Watson, Brewer and Bogans to go in like they did in Game 1.