The Chicago Bulls aren・t dead yet.

The Oklahoma City Thunder already are.

The Bulls will follow suit, most likely, on Thursday night.

Maybe this is my own attention deficit disorder coming to the fore, but I really can・t wait for the Final to begin.

I・ve already lost all interest in either conference final.

It・s not that they have been bad. Full credit to both the Bulls and the Thunder. They are two young, gutsy teams that have provided all of us with plenty of entertaining nights.

It・s just that for me, both teams are dead men walking right now. Oklahoma City was too young and inexperienced to come back from being down 3-1.

The Bulls are simply overmatched. Miami has taken the best shots the Bulls can throw at them and fired back with twice the volume.

Derrick Rose is a wonder on the basketball court, but now that Eric Spoelstra has figured out that he can be contained by his own equally talented and substantially larger star in LeBron James, the Bulls have no other options.

That said, let・s get on to what everyone is really interested in.

Miami-Dallas. Round 2.

It has been five years since the Heat and Mavs made their one and only trip to the NBA finals and what a memorable final it was.

Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Terry looking like they would carry Dallas to the title until Dwyane Wade took the Heat on his back and carried them to a championship.

Not everyone believes Wade did that alone.

If you believe the Mark Cubans of the world, the Mavs had that series taken from them by the officials who actively aided and abetted Wade at every step.

Cuban, the Mavs owner then and now, watched his team take the first two in that series on home court, get giddy at the thought of a title, then travel down to Miami and become completely unglued over the next three.

His problem? He was convinced every time Wade had the ball and his Mavs had the audacity to defend him, they were called for fouls.

Cuban, never one to stew silently, had a meltdown during and after Game 5 and paid handsomely to the league offices for it.

By Game 6 back in Dallas, Cuban had calmed down but the Heat rolled on, winning 95-92, and celebrating an NBA championship on Dallas・ court.

And now, barring a reincarnation of a 28-year-old Michael Jordan in the Chicago lineup or a freakishly viral rash of injuries to the Dallas Mavericks, the two shall meet again.

Miami・s Big 3 against Dirk and a deep Mavericks roster.

However, the Heat have added a little depth of their own over the past week in the form of Udonis Haslem.

The return of Haslem, a high-energy rebounder and defender, from a near season-long injury, has substantially added to Miami・s toughness and physicality as Rose and the Bulls will likely concede.

The Heat are also beginning to see the return of that outside shooting game from Mike Miller.

Add that to an already potent starting lineup that boasts James, Wade and Chris Bosh and it・s no wonder they are considered the team to beat.

Haslem is one of five players on the two rosters still around who played in that 2006 final.

Nowitzki and Terry are still with the Mavs while Wade is obviously still a member of the Heat. The fifth, Erick Dampier, played with Dallas in ．06 and is now on Miami・s roster although he has not played the entire post season.

Dampier insists he is healthy if the Heat ever decide they need a little more size, but he has not played since April 6.

Shawn Marion, a former member of the Heat in their lean days between that championship year and this season, has been a key for the Mavs in the series with Oklahoma City as he has drawn the defensive assignment of one Kevin Durant.

Marion has done a better job on Durant as the series has gone on and it・s not a stretch to see him getting the same kind of defensive assignment with LeBron James when the NBA final commences.

The key for the Heat is going to be handling Dirk.

Nowitzki, with his length and his ability to shoot from the outside, will give the Heat a different problem than the one they seem to have mastered with Rose.

With Rose it was keeping him in front of you and denying him lanes to the basket. With Nowitzki it・s going to be size and range, not to mention his experience factor that the Heat are up against.

Now if only the Eastern Conference final could wrap up so we can get down to it.

