MIAMI ¡X This is about as quiet as Miami Heat guard Dwyane Wade gets. He didn¡¦t score a single point in the third quarter. Not one in the fourth. He had a measly eight points at the start of overtime. To the extent he had stood out during regulation of Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Chicago Bulls, it was for a botched uncontested dunk early Tuesday night, and turnovers.

But as Chicago tried to handle an onslaught from the other parts of Miami¡¦s Big Three, Wade woke up just when the Heat needed him. He scored six points in the extra period, blocked two shots and contributed a steal to help the Heat finally shed the relentless Bulls with a 101-93 victory.


¡§He struggled,¡¨ Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said. ¡§He was having a tough night for 30 some minutes, [but] we reminded him in one of the final huddles that this is his time, to make game-saving plays.¡¨

With the victory in front of 20,125 white-shirted, roaring fans at American Airlines Arena, the Heat took a 3-1 edge in the series and effectively stole home-court advantage from the Bulls as the series moves to Chicago for Game 5 on Thursday.

Wade, who opened overtime with a turnover and missed shot, hit his first field goal since late in the second quarter with 2 minutes 8 seconds remaining. He then dropped in a layup after stealing a pass and taking the ball the length of the court on a fast break to give the Heat a 95-89 lead with 1:10 left. He also sank a pair of free throws to help secure the game.

¡§It¡¦s not how you start, it¡¦s how you finish,¡¨ Wade said. ¡§I think I was only person in the arena happy going into overtime because I knew I had another five minutes to make up for the first 48.¡¨

Miami got 35 points from LeBron James, who made all 13 of his free throw attempts, and 22 from Chris Bosh, who was 10 of 11 from the line. But as Wade proved invisible most of the night, the Heat was propelled by a hot-shooting night from Mike Miller, who contributed 12 points, and nine from Mario Chalmers, who hit a pair of threes and all three field goals he attempted.

Derrick Rose led the Bulls with 23 points, but he hit just 8 of 27 from the field, committed seven turnovers and blew two chances to win the game in the final minute. The most critical came as time expired, when a last-second fadeaway jumper attempt over James fell short.

The opportunity came about after James ¡V also looking to put the game away ¡V was called for charging with eight seconds remaining, giving Chicago the final possession. Rose got the ball on an inbounds play and worked for his shot but couldn¡¦t land it.

¡§He missed,¡¨ Bulls Coach Tom Thibodeau said. ¡§But listen, Derrick Rose, I wouldn¡¦t want to have any other guy. I¡¦m with that guy all the way. They¡¦re a great team. They compete. They play hard. They play great defense.¡¨

Rose had tried an almost identical fadeaway jumper over James with just less than 30 seconds left.

¡§Tonight, definitely, was on me,¡¨ Rose said. ¡§I had two opportunities to end the game, and couldn¡¦t do it. .?.?. It really was my fault, but I¡¦m going to learn from it.¡¨

 In overtime, Bosh hit a pair of free throws after being fouled on a dunk attempt, then added a jumper from the top of the key to give the Heat an 89-85 lead with 2:46 remaining. Chicago got a three from Ronnie Brewer and a pair of free throws from Carlos Boozer, but the shot in the corner by Wade and a driving layup by James with 1:36 left gave the Heat a 93-89 lead ¡V and its first comfortable margin of the night.

The dominant overtime performance helped the Heat persevere in another grind of a game. Neither team shot well; the Heat hit 32 of 75 from the field (42.7 percent); the Bulls, 35 of 87 (40.2 percent). Miami had 12 steals and the Bulls gathered in eight. The Heat turned the ball over 15 times and Chicago had 19.

¡§This series is an absolute bloodbath and that game tonight was a total grind,¡¨ Spoelstra said. ¡§That¡¦s about as competitive and physical as it could be. It was about enduring and staying with it mentally and physically ¡X and making whatever game-saving plays, game-winning plays, that you can.¡¨