You know the old saying "time brings about a change"? We often hear this phrase in our lives when we are going through difficult times. However, it seems that phrase can be applied to sports as well. It wasn't that long ago when the city of Chicago was in a state of euphoria following the Chicago Bulls' 103-82 win over the hated Miami Heat in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Finals. It appeared that victory was the first step toward the franchise returning to the Finals after a 13-year hiatus. However, three games and 11 days later, the tide has taken a turn for the worst, with the Bulls now trailing 3-1 and facing elimination.

How did things change so rapidly? The answer is simple. As much hate as I have had for the Heat all season, they have managed to do what no other team was capable of doing, clamping down on Derrick Rose(notes). While the Pacers and the Hawks tried to do this in the earlier rounds of the playoffs, they didn't have the athletic players needed in order to slow Rose down consistently. The job they have done on Rose makes me think back some twenty years ago when the Bulls were still trying to get past the Pistons. No matter what Chicago did, or how well Jordan played, Detroit was able to knock them out of the playoffs three straight times by locking down on the Chicago'E?s lone superstar player. This series kind of resembles that in the sense that the Bulls have played the Heat to a near standstill over the last three games only to see Miami find different ways to emerge victorious in crunch time.

So at this point, I am asking myself what needs to happen in order for the Bulls to see another day? Most analysts say that Rose needs to bring his MVP game or the Bulls' season will be finished. I agree with this assessment, but only to an extent. Yes, Rose needs to have a spectacular game, the kind of performance that shows why he won the award in the first place. However, it will take a team effort for the Bulls to earn a return trip back to Miami. If Rose starts playing well, he will see a heavy does of LeBron James(notes) and Dwayne Wade on defense. With that being said, the supporting cast will need to step up big time and knock down shots with regularity because the scoring opportunities will be there.

The Bulls will also need to stop playing so tentative when the game is on the line. I saw Deng pass up a number of open shots in Game 4 even though he was having a good shooting night. Along with that, why am I seeing Carlos Boozer(notes), a power-forward mind you, settling for 15-17 foot jumpers rather than establishing himself in the low-post? Yes, Miami is a good defensive team. Yes, their defense is the best the Bulls have seen all season. However, you will not win if you are not willing to attack them in the areas where they are vulnerable.

Luol Deng(notes) has stated that there is no quit in this team and that they will not lay down for the Heat. As fan, I can only hope that he is right and that the Bulls will somehow find a way to pull it together in Game 5. If for nothing else, to show that the opening game of the series was not a fluke.