The Miami Heat took another step closer to an NBA Championship on Tuesday night in a Game 4 victory at home over the Chicago Bulls. The Heat are now up 3-1 in the Eastern Conference finals, with Game 5 to be played in Chicago on Thursday night.

For the Bulls, it・s a win-or-go-home scenario.

LeBron James and Dwyane Wade have made it so that the Bulls are backed into a corner. James scored 35 points at home in Game 4 to lead Miami, but it was some of his defensive stops, along with Wade・s that ensured the Heat would protect home court.

Now, the Heat get the opportunity to meet the Dallas Mavericks in the 2011 NBA Finals with one more victory.

：We understand it・s going to be a tough game,； Wade said of the upcoming match up in the United Center. ：But we have the team and we have the guys that are capable of showing up and putting on a performance that we need to win the game. It・s not going to be pretty, but that・s not Miami Heat basketball anyway.；

On the other side of the court, NBA MVP Derrick Rose knows that he has to elevate his level of play among himself and his teammates if they are to take a flight back to Miami for Game 6.

：We still have games to play,； Rose remarked. ：Thibs talked to us in the locker room about it, where we・re going back to play at home, and we have to stay positive, where they are beatable. But we just have to make sure that we play together and the turnovers have to be down, play defense.；

Just eight teams in the history of the NBA post-season have comeback to win a series after trailing 3-1. The good news for Chicago is that they would get Game 7 at home if they are able to win Game 5 at home and Game 6 on the road.

Chicago head coach Tom Thibodeau believes that making a few adjustments against the Miami defense and try and open up some more options for Rose will be important.

：(Rose) doesn・t have to change,； Thibodeau said. ：He can go catch-and-shoot, he can go isolation, he can go pick-and-roll. There・s a lot of things. But they also have an excellent team defense. It・s not just LeBron.；

If Rose and the Bulls can get off to a good start, they will have the home-crowd on their side, and can try and build off of some momentum.