CHICAGO ¡X LeBron James slapped away Derrick Rose¡¦s desperation three-point shot and waited until time expired before he flexed and let out a guttural scream. Then he dropped to his knees, balanced by his right hand, said a little prayer and pointed toward the sky. Only a few minutes before on Thursday night, it didn¡¦t seem as if James or the Miami Heat had any prayer of advancing to the NBA Finals, as it trailed the Chicago Bulls by 12 points in Game 5 with just more than three minutes remaining.

But in an arena that had grown accustomed to watching Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen dominate the league and claim the first of six NBA titles twenty years ago, James and Dwyane Wade showed why they may have formed the most lethal perimeter combination since, as they led Miami on a final, unbelievable push that resulted in an 83-80 victory at United Center.


The Bulls had appeared to have silenced them, but James and Wade were merely lurking until they combined to score 16 points during an 18-3 run over the final 3 minutes 14 seconds to pull out a stunning victory.

¡§We don¡¦t even know what happened,¡¨ Wade said after scoring 10 of his 21 points in the fourth quarter. ¡§I¡¦m not even going to lie to you and say that we do.¡¨

James scored a game-high 28 points, including the decisive 21-foot jumper with 29 seconds remaining, as the Heat set up a rematch of the 2006 NBA Finals with the Dallas Mavericks. Game 1 will be Tuesday in Miami.

James and Wade are back in the NBA Finals for the second time in their respective careers, with James four wins away from claiming the championship that eluded him for his first seven seasons in Cleveland. He once again feels validated for his decision to bolt the Cavaliers to form an all-star trio with Wade and Chris Bosh, who added 20 points, including two free throws with 16.8 seconds remaining.

¡§I understand a lot of backlash came with me going to Miami, but I understand also that I did what was best for me and my family and what was best for me being a professional athlete,¡¨ James said. ¡§I wanted to team up with some guys that I understood would never die down in the moment.¡¨

The Bulls led, 77-65, when reserve guard Ronnie Brewer made a free throw, but Wade, who was limited to just 13 points to that point, made a short jumper and a fast-break layup over Rose. James then made a three-pointer to bring the Heat within five points with just more than two minutes remaining.

Rose responded by spinning and making a floater over James to give the Bulls a 79-72 lead, but the Heat kept coming. Rose fouled Wade on a three-pointer ¡X his first of the series ¡X and he converted a four-point play.

¡§He¡¦s got something different, a different makeup inside of him that he¡¦s able to rise to the occasion, regardless of what¡¦s happening during the course of the game,¡¨ Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said of Wade, who had missed 6 of 8 shots entering the fourth quarter. ¡§He¡¦s proven so many times. When it¡¦s winning time, there¡¦s really not many players that are better than him in the last two minutes.¡¨
