A season that had so much success and momentum heading in to the playoffs came to a screeching halt last night. The underdog Bulls played tough, but once again the Miami Heat's superior talent showed when they came back from a seemingly impossible deficit.

 LeBron James is a force, and the oldest looking 29 year old in the NBA, Dwayne Wade, made just enough big shots to catapult the Heat to an unbelievable comeback. 

It was the same story, new night for the Bulls. Played well for three quarters, but allowing the Heat to build streaks together at times when the Bulls seemed to have a chance at putting Miami away.

    Kyle Korver hit his fist three and then proceeded to miss his next two, typical. 
    Chicago fans finally got their wish when Coach Tom Thibodeau brought in veteran power forward Kurt Thomas who was able to knock down a couple jumpers that got the crowd on their feet. Plus, we saw how Derrick really likes the screens he was setting and was able to play off of them. 
    One of the biggest bright spots was the play of Ronnie Brewer. He played his usual stellar defense and had 10 points on 4 of 5 shooting.
    Luol Deng started off strong with 12 points early on, but was forced to the bench due to foul trouble. Something to be expected when you are asked to guard the best player in the NBA, and battle the referees ever quick whistle. (On a side note from this game, Luol Deng easily had the best season from any Bull not named Derrick Rose. Deng finally was able to put it all together while improving his perimeter shooting, and being dominant on defense. He was worth every cent of his eleven million dollar salary.)
    And our homegrown MVP Derrick Rose. He was able to get to the rim on numerous occasions and he played his heart out. The biggest issue was his shooting. Rose missed 20 of 29 field goals. That's not going to cut it in the Eastern Conference Finals when you're playing a team like Miami.

The Bulls had plenty of chances to win games in this series and will kick themselves all off-season about it. Whether it was Derricks failed game winner, or last nights impossible blown lead, this was an upset that the Bulls missed out on.

It will be interesting to see what the front office will do this off-season. One thing is for certain, they can not not do anything. Miami will only get better, and will be the biggest obstacle to a championship for years to come for the Bulls. Dwight Howard anyone?

Lets try to stay calm Chicago. Derrick Rose is only 22 and will learn from this, and we have an excellent coach with Tom Thibodeau. It may seem dark right now, but the future is as bright as ever.

Read more: http://www.chicagonow.com/blogs/windy-city-sports-talk/2011/05/bullsheat-game-5-reaction.html#ixzz1O22fsWZ7

