The Chicago Bulls' backs were against the wall entering Game 5 against the Miami Heat on May 26. Being a fan of this team, it has been a hard reality to deal with the fact that they were going to lose this series. So the only thing most of us wanted was for the Bulls not to allow their season to end at home. However, in similar fashion to the past three games, the Bulls would yet again let victory slip through their fingers. When all of the dust had settled, the Heat were celebrating at the expense of the both the Bulls and their fans with an 83-80 victory, setting up a rematch of the 2006 Finals with the Dallas Mavericks.

We can talk about statistics all day long but the stat sheet will not clearly define as to why the Bulls lost yet another close game to end this series. This game came down to one thing; the inability to execute when it mattered the most. Chicago played well through three quarters and actually led 76-64 following a three-pointer by Ronnie Brewer(notes). It seemed that all of the pieces were in place for the Bulls to extend this series to a sixth game in Miami. Then it happened. The mother of all meltdowns that turned my momentary joy into utter disbelief.

After going up by 12 points with three minutes remaining, the Bulls only managed one field goal and two-free throws while Miami finished hitting their last nine shots, including two three-pointers by James and a huge four-point play by Dwayne Wade, fueling an 18-3 run that essentially closed the door on the Bulls' season. The game ended with Chicago barely getting off a desperation three-pointer by Derrick Rose(notes) that pretty much summed up how this entire series has went. When the moment of truth came about, there was no second option to step and force Miami from continuously focusing their defensive efforts on Rose.

While I tip my hat to the Bulls for giving us a better season than what most people predicted or expected, they simply did not have what it took to beat one of the better teams in the post-season. This Eastern Conference Finals match-up reminds me of a quote from Michael Jordan in describing the Phoenix Suns, whom the Bulls played in the 1993 Finals. He stated that the difference between the two teams was that the Suns had what it took to compete but the Bulls had it what it took to ultimately win. That was exactly the case between Bulls and the Heat in these playoffs. The Bulls were capable of keeping the games relatively close but did not have the firepower to put the Heat away for good, as Games 2-4 indicated. Hopefully Chicago will use this experience and take the necessary steps to take it a step further next year.