With three minutes remaining and the opportunity for a Game 6 close, the Bulls dropped a 12-point lead and ended their season.

This one is going to hurt.

After dominating the Heat for the entire regular season and in Game 1 of this series, the Bulls' greatest flaw emerged in the ensuing games: Derrick Rose(notes) does not have a Scottie Pippin.

Rose cannot carry this team and when put in a position to do so in the series' fourth quarter, he just couldn't do it.

On the to-do list for the offseason: find a consistent No. 2 scorer.

It wasn't all doom and gloom for the Bulls in Thursday's game. They came out strong in the first quarter and after holding a brief lead, the Heat showed up and took it away halfway through the quarter. The Bulls saw great play from Rose and Luol Deng(notes) to enter the first break ahead, 25-21.

Kyle Korver(notes) showed up in the second quarter and got some points on the board. Ronnie Brewer(notes) also added some great plays during the game.

The Bulls stretched their lead to 12 around the five-minute mark and ended the first half ahead 45-38.

Foul trouble plagued the Bulls in the second half; Carlos Boozer(notes) went cold, and the game's intensity increased. The Bulls pushed the pace and kept their lead through the third quarter but there was definitely a negative urgency to their efforts.

After ending all three quarters in the lead, you had to feel confident the Bulls would pull off the win.

In the fourth quarter, Kurt Thomas(notes) played well and for this green team, they needed his postseason experience.

The United crowd was crazy about their 12-point lead toward the end but LeBron James(notes) and Dwyane Wade(notes) found this unacceptable; they began chipping away at the lead with an 18-3 run.

With two minutes remaining, I knew the Bulls were going to lose.

Again, Rose carried the weight of his team during the collapse and again, could not pull off the win.

Expectations will be high for next season; let's hope we'll see the Bulls playing next June.

