This is one of those series where you'd love to have Game 1 under your belt before you had to pick a winner. Will Serge Ibaka and Nick Collison do a better job slowing down Dirk Nowitzki than Pau Gasol and Lamar Odom did? Probably, but Zach Randolph managed to have strong moments against the stellar Thunder frontline. Does Shawn Marion still have it in him to keep up with a guy like Kevin Durant on his own, or will he need help, shifting defences along the way? It's another series of old versus young talent, and youth has dominated the day so far, but Dallas ploughed through Portland and Los Angeles prior to this series so...

The point is that this could be a very competitive series, but it could also be a sweep for either team. There is so little history to draw on when it comes to these teams in this scenario that it makes an accurate prediction especially difficult. The Thunder have only one player that has ever been this deep in the playoffs before (Kendrick Perkins) and they've struggled with consistency the deeper they've gone. Dallas as an organization obviously made it to the NBA Finals in 2006, but only Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Terry return from that team. While guys like Jason Kidd, Shawn Marion, Peja Stojakovic and Tyson Chandler have all gone deep while on other teams, as a unit the Mavericks are an untested commodity; albeit an untested unit that has been playing terrific basketball right now.

A look to the regular season doesn't really aid in the prognostication, either. While Dallas took the first two games in the matchup, both games came pre-2011 and before Caron Butler was lost for the season. OKC's subsequent win on January 6 came well over a month before Kendrick Perkins arrived and James Harder broke out of his early-season slump, so their success that game doesn't do much presage the next two weeks, either.

In theory, the Thunder should have a nice scoring advantage against the Mavs, who are a bit older and less athletic and thus look less poised to stop the tandem of Durant and Westbrook.  While that theory has held somewhat true for Durant, who went for 30 ppg on over 50% shooting in the season series, the Mavs significantly limited Westbrook, holding him to just 14 ppg on an absurdly low 31.8% shooting. If the Mavs can maintain that standard in this West Finals, then perhaps Nowitzki and Durant can offset each other in terms of production, with Jason Terry and James Harder doing the same off of the bench, then it comes down to role players making the difference in each game. If that happens, then you have to give the edge to the more experienced and consistent Dallas reserves. Dallas has led the playoffs in terms of offensive efficiency by a healthy margin so far, and they have more than doubled OKC in terms of point differential. They've simply been the more dangerous offensive outfit, and so if support pieces are left to decide the series, Dallas gets the nod.

However, slowing down Westbrook is not so simple over the course of a long 7-game series. He's scoring 24 ppg in these playoffs, and while he's doing it on a rather meager 40.7%, the pressure he applies to defences with his speed and athleticism can win a game on its own. Also, the 7.4 free throws he's been averaging per game in the postseason, to go along with Durant's 9.8, will really test the front-court depth of the Mavs. Will that be the difference between a series win for the Thunder over the Mavs? Maybe, but it's hardly something you can take to the bank today.

At the end of the day, you have to ask yourself what matters more: the combined value of veteran experience or the combined value of a group of young athletes? It says here, cautiously, that the experience in Dallas will put them over the top. They've been stellar in the playoffs so far, you could even consider them the most dominant team in what has been an ultra-competitive postseason. How confident am I in this prediction? Not very. Dallas has been great, but in bursts so has Oklahoma City.

For now, we lean on the value of experience, even if that has been a bad bet all spring, but after Game 1, we'll have a much better feel for how these squads match-up. So long as the series maintains the high standards that these playoffs have offered thus far, though, then who outside of Dallas and Oklahoma City really cares who wins? The playoffs have been so compelling that just keeping up with that level of play is a win enough for the audience at home. 