The Dallas Mavericks swept through the Los Angeles Lakers, sometime last fall, like they didn't even know that Kobe Bryant(notes) and company were the two-time defending champs. The Oklahoma City Thunder? They just squeaked by the Memphis Grizzlies, and let me know if my timing is off here, around 4 a.m. on Tuesday morning. I believe Mike Conley(notes) still hasn't been informed that the series is over. Somebody get the kid a towel.

We have to move on, though, and preview the Western Conference finals. So bear with me and then behold the staggering genius of Dan Devine and Eric Freeman as we look at what might go down between the Thunder and the Mavericks.

***

A couple of days later, despite numerous attempts at getting this right, Dallas and Oklahoma City in the third and hopefully fourth week of May just doesn't sound right.

Many pegged OKC the latest and greatest threat out West before the season started. In scores of BDL Chats!, I pegged the Mavericks as championship contenders that belonged amongst the usual top-tier suspects. I meant it, too, but really? No Lakers, Spurs or Nuggets? No Jazz? No Hornet (there's only one of them, and his name is Chris Paul(notes))?

Dallas and Oklahoma City?

Dallas and Oklahoma City is an "ooh, that'll be a good one too" second part of a doubleheader that we look forward to on Thursday night, as the super-important supposed finals or conference finals preview between Miami and whomever wraps up. It's a couple of nice teams that have and will continue to do well, before the slaughter. Usually at the hands of Kobe Bryant.

Alas, no slaughter. And, actually, Dallas went through Los Angeles, winning handily at the hands of Dirk Nowitzki(notes) in a four-game slaughter. And Oklahoma City honestly looked like the hands-on favorite to top the Lakers, had they somehow met in the first, second or third round. Dallas and Oklahoma City deserve to be on the tip of our tongue in the second or third week of May. One of them deserves our respect when June rolls around.

So who takes it? The team that spaces things out, passes a bunch, and looks good in blue? Or the team that packs it all in, moves into the right spots, and looks good in blue?

Well, the fact that these aren't the same teams that we admired in some made-up January showdown on TNT plays a part. OKC has changed considerably since the trade deadline because of a pair of deals that shook up its rotation in a desperately needed way. Dallas, without the benefit of a major move, has enjoyed the same needed shake-up based entirely on internal development, and it hasn't even gotten to utilize Roddy Beaubois (as most suspected) during that growth spurt. Looking back on Dallas' 2-1 record against OKC during the regular season just isn't enough.

The layoff, though, might be enough to tilt things. The Mavericks will play basketball on May 17 for the first time since May 8, and while I don't fully expect the Thunder to roar out to a 32-16 lead in the first quarter of Game 1, I do expect that time off (thanks a lot, Lakers) to catch up to them at some point during the team's first two games in Dallas. All the practice in the world can't prepare you for Nick Collison's(notes) moving feet, and all the rest in the world (and, after eight days, Dallas has had all the rest in the world) won't make up for a series of dulled senses.

And then it goes up to OKC for two, which should be the death knell, right? But Dirk Nowitzki hits threes, now. So does Jason Kidd(notes), apparently. And Tyson Chandler(notes) just got fouled as he pulled in the defensive rebound, the Mavs are up 13 with five minutes to go, and the Thunder are already in the penalty. Tyson Chandler is pumping his fists, and Tyson Chandler hits free throws, now. Even on the road.
