J.J. Barea(notes) was the key to destroying the Los Angeles Lakers in the Dallas Mavericks Western Conference Semifinals. Now he has shown he can get by the Oklahoma City Thunder in Game 1 of their series May 17. Barea scored 21 points off the bench and was once again unstoppable.

Barea's speed was the change of pace that helped the Dallas Mavericks as they systematically destroyed the Thunder's will to win. Moving forward, the Dallas Mavericks will need Barea to be the spark off the bench while their starters get some well deserved time on the bench.

Dirk Nowtizki has erased all criticism of past failures with his performance during the Mavericks seven game winning streak in the 2011 NBA Playoffs. Nowitzki has been big from the outside and he was flawless from the foul line in Game 1. Nowitzki hit 24 straight free throws from the line, an NBA Playoffs record. The previous record was 21 straight free throws.

The odd combination of offensive looks for Nowitzki and the starters contrasted to when Barea takes the floor is tough to deal with for NBA defenses. Barea has been a secret weapon entering the 2011 NBA Playoffs but in Dallas they have known his value to the team all season. The Thunder are missing a take charge point guard off the bench in the image of Barea and if they can convince Westbrook to take some tips from Barea's play as point guard they may have a chance.

Kevin Durant(notes) scored 40 points in the Thunder's loss but a key problem in Game 1 for the Thunder was Russell Westbrook(notes). Westbrook has been inconsistent all season and in Game 1 the point guard only connected for three assists. Westbrook has had a tendency of taking the shot instead of making the pass and his decision making will be what costs the Thunder in the long run.

Watching the Dallas Mavericks in Game 1 it is obvious why the Los Angeles Lakers lost to Dallas. The Mavs have the ability to change speeds, they are the most athletic team in the NBA Playoffs and they have a big man that is dangerous from any spot on the court. Nowtizki has learned he can dominate inside as well and he has shed the soft tag as he elevated his game.

Following Game 1 of the Western Conference Finals it will be interesting to see how the Oklahoma City Thunder game plan for Game 2. The Mavericks have no answer for Nowtizki or Barea and if they can contain them they will still have to contend with Jason Kidd(notes) and Jason Terry(notes).