DALLAS ¡V Was the can¡¦t-miss Game 1 performance the best of Dirk Nowitzki¡¦s playoff career?

¡§Well, it¡¦s a win,¡¨ Dirk said after dropping 48 points while missing only three shots in the win over Oklahoma City. ¡§I mean, really, that¡¦s all I care about.¡¨

OK, so he¡¦s too focused and humble to rank his most impressive playoff performances. Leave that to us.

There¡¦s no question that ranks among Nowitzki¡¦s top three. The two other games in the debate happened during Dallas¡¦ run to the 2006 Finals.

*Nowitzki scored 37 points and snatched 15 rebounds to carry the Mavs to a Game 7 road win over the rival Spurs in the ¡¦06 conference semifinals. His drive for an and-1 lefty layup tied the score with 21 seconds left in regulation, then he blocked a Tim Duncan putback attempt at the buzzer to force overtime. Nowitzki made 11 of 20 shots from the floor and 15 of 16 from the line as the Mavs finally got past the Spurs.

*After a poor Game 4 performance in the West finals, Nowitzki responded by setting a franchise playoff record with 50 points in the pivotal game of the series against the Suns. Phoenix forward Tim Thomas taunted Dirk by blowing him a kiss early in the game. The big German¡¦s response was sweet jumper after sweet jumper. He hit 14 of 26 shots from the floor and 17 of 18 from the line and also did some dirty work, grabbing 12 rebounds.

The stakes were similar on Tuesday night in Game 1 of the West finals. The efficiency of Dirk¡¦s 48-point outing vaults it to the top of the list.

The man missed only three of 15 shots from the floor and none of his 24 free throws. Only one player has ever had fewer field goal attempts in a 40-point playoff game. Nobody has ever shot more free throws in a game ¡V regular season or playoff ¡V without missing. His six rebounds, four assists and four blocks were bonuses.

I¡¦d rank the Dirk dandies in this order: Game 1 of the ¡¦11 West finals, Game 5 of the ¡¦06 West finals, Game 7 of the ¡¦06 West semifinals.

