The Chicago Bulls took a 1-0 lead against the Miami Heat in their best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals series, 103-82, on Sunday (Monday in Manila).

League MVP Derrick Rose scored 28 points and 6 assists to lead the Bulls, while Chris Bosh paced Miami with 30 points.
 
Rose got ample help from Luol Deng, who scored 21 points while hitting 4 three-pointers. Carlos Boozer had 14 points, and Joakim Noah had 9 points and 14 rebounds.
 
Chicago¡¦s smothering defense limited LeBron James to 15 points on 5 of 15 shooting, while Dwyane Wade got only 17 points. Once again, the depth of the Miami Heat became an issue as the Big Three¡¦s supporting cast scored only 19 points.
 
¡§We did a good job on those guys, LeBron and D-Wade. It took a team effort,¡¨ said Deng. ¡§Guys just really stayed with the game plan from start to finish.¡¨

Rose agreed, saying, "The biggest thing we worry about is our defense." 

"We took it on the chin tonight," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said. "Offensively, we got away from things we normally do... We lost a lot of those effort areas, the second chance points. It really deflated us and we lost our concentration on the offensive end. The game got away from us."
 
The game was a see-saw affair in the first half as the two teams traded shots. Every time Miami attempted to make a run, the Bulls responded with a basket. The two teams were tied going into halftime, 48-48.
 
Chicago began to pull away from Miami midway through the third canto, thanks to a 10 to nothing run bolstered by 3 pointers from Rose and Keith Bogans.

James Jones stopped the bleeding for Miami with a trey of his own, allowing the Heat to close the gap to six, 61-67. The Bulls outscored Miami 24-15 in the third, however, and entered the fourth quarter leading by nine, 72-63.
 
A 31-point fourth quarter by the Bulls ended any chance of a Miami comeback. Omer Asik¡¦s slam dunk gave Chicago a double-digit lead, 74-63, and the Bulls ran away with the victory.

"In the second half, everybody's defense got better... Our effort picked up," said Chicago coach Tom Thibodeau. 
 
¡§We just had a good run¡K It happens a lot when teams get a good momentum, and it happened tonight,¡¨ Deng said.
 
Neither team shot well from the field, with Miami hitting 47.1% of their attempts and Chicago netting 43.7%.

Unfortunately for Miami, the Bulls hit 10 of their 21 attempts beyond the arc, had 23 assists to Miami's 11 and out-rebounded them 45-33. Chicago had 19 offensive rebounds and 31 second chance points.

"Those (offensive boards and second chance points) are demoralizing for a defensive team," said James. "We have to figure out a way to clean that up."

"They just played harder than us... their effort was better than ours," Wade admitted.-- Statistics from NBA.com
