Russell Westbrook has been a superstar for the Oklahoma City Thunder this season. During Game 7 of their conference semifinals matchup with the Memphis Grizzlies, Westbrook's triple double of 14 points, 14 assists and 10 rebounds was a significant factor in the Thunder advancing.

But if Tuesday night's Western Conference finals opener in Dallas was your first glimpse of the third-year talent, you're probably wondering why there is so much hype.

The incredibly athletic 22 year old missed 10 of his first 11 shots and finished 3 for 15 from the floor as the Mavericks grabbed Game 1, 121-112.

"It's not about me or what I was doing," Westbrook said. "It's about our team and we got to continue to play."

The soft spoken Westbrook, who added three rebounds and three assists, didn't seem bothered by his shooting performance as he faced a barrage of questions in the visiting locker room at American Airlines Center.

Was it something the Mavericks were doing defensively? If so, what were they doing?

"Nothing," Westbrook responded. "I just missed shots."

To his credit, the 2011 All-Star managed to go 14 for 18 from the free throw line and finish with 20 points.

His friend and teammate, Kevin Durant, is so sure that Westbrook's shooting woes won't continue that he made the following statement during his postgame press conference.

"I could bet the whole house that Russell Westbrook won't shoot 3 for 15 again," Durant said. "You can quote me on that."

It's understandable that Durant would grab his teammate's back, but it's not like this is Westbrook's first time shooting 3 for 15 this postseason. Against the Denver Nuggets on April 27, he shot that exact total in a 100-97 first round Thunder victory.

For a 6-3 point guard that averaged 21.9 points, 8.2 assists and 4.6 rebounds during the regular season, Westbrook should be expected to have a bounce back performance in Game 2 Thursday night.

"Westbrook had a very sub-par game for him," Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said. "I thought we did some good things against him, but I also thought he just had an off game."

