Dirk Nowitzki showed no rust from a long layoff, scoring 48 points ¡X including a playoff-
record 24-for-24 effort from the free-throw line ¡X to lead the Dallas Mavericks to a 121-112 victory Tuesday against the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals. Game 2 is scheduled for Thursday in Dallas, where the Mavericks are 6-0 this postseason.

Nowitzki was 12-for-15 from the field, including 10 of his first 11, and added six rebounds, four assists and four blocked shots.
Jason Terry added 24 points and J.J. Barea 21 for the Mavericks, who hadn¡¦t played since completing their four-game sweep of the Los Angeles Lakers on May 8.

Kevin Durant scored 40 points and Russell Westbrook 20 for the Thunder, which missed 10 consecutive shots during a 61/2-minute stretch of the second quarter in which the Mavericks took control.

Cavaliers win lottery

The Cleveland Cavaliers got a huge jump on their post-LeBron James rebuilding process by winning the lottery for the No. 1 selection in the NBA draft next month.

Even though they had a better chance to win the lottery with their own pick, they won it with the selection they acquired from the Los Angeles Clippers in the Baron Davis trade. That pick had only a 2.8 percent chance of
coming through.

The Cavaliers had the second-worst record in the league after losing James to the Miami Heat in free agency. They¡¦ll select first for the first time since 2003, when they drafted James out of high school, and likely will decide
between Duke point guard Kyrie Irving and Arizona forward Derrick Williams. They also will have the fourth pick.

The Minnesota Timberwolves, who had the worst record in the league, will pick second, and the Utah Jazz turned the New Jersey Nets¡¦ pick from the Deron Williams trade into the No. 3 selection.

Docs clear Doc¡¦s throat

Days after signing a five-year
contract extension, Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers is recovering from surgery to remove a benign polyp from his throat. 

