DALLAS ¡X They took their turns, one after another, with Oklahoma City coach Scott Brooks sending defenders to face Dirk Nowitzki as if calling the roll.

Serge Ibaka. Nick Collison. Kevin Durant. They tried and failed. Thabo Sefolosha. James Harden. They took their turns but were helpless.

While Durant kept the Thunder in the game on one end, Nowitzki masterfully kept the Mavericks on top on the other until he had rolled up 48 points and Dallas opened the Western Conference finals with a 121-112 win over Oklahoma City on Tuesday night at American Airlines Center.

¡§He¡¦s been doing it for many years against a lot of great players,¡¨ Brooks said. ¡§He¡¦s a great player. He¡¦s one of the best we¡¦ve ever seen at that position offensively.¡¨

He put up one of the greatest performances ever seen, missing just three shots all night. Nowitzki set an NBA record for free throws made without a miss in a playoff game, going 24-for-24 from the line while making 12 of 15 shots and finishing with fewer missed shots than defenders assigned to slow him.

¡§I was working a lot on my shot,¡¨ Nowitzki said. ¡§I was in the gym every night. I was really looking for my shot early. For a shooter, having a couple go in, that¡¦s even better for the confidence.

¡§I just attacked from there.¡¨

Thunderstuck

Durant countered with 40 points on 10-of-18 shooting. But while Nowitzki got loads of help from backup guards Jason Terry and J.J. Barea, who combined for 45 points, Oklahoma City¡¦s second-leading scorer, Russell Westbrook, made just three of 15 shots.

The Thunder could have overcome that had they ever found a way to deal with Nowitzki. He made eight of nine shots in the first half but was more dominant in the second half, when he quickly put the Thunder in foul trouble to trigger his unrelenting march to the line.

¡§That¡¦s part of his greatness,¡¨ Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said.

Nowitzki drew Ibaka¡¦s fourth foul in the first minute of the half and soon sent Collison out with his fourth. Durant had a few successful minutes, but the Mavericks soon posted up Nowitzki on every possession. He drew fouls on Durant on consecutive touches in the low blocks, ending that matchup and giving Sefolosha a turn.

Sefolosha immediately fouled Nowitzki and tried fronting him to no avail. When Nowitzki got Sefolosha on his back, he drew two more fouls, ending that experiment as the Dallas lead swelled to 15.

¡§With Dirk, you can¡¦t put a jump shooter on the line 24 times,¡¨ Durant said. ¡§We have to be smarter than that.¡¨

Even after the Thunder closed within nine early in the fourth quarter, the Mavericks used the threat of Nowitzki to create opportunities elsewhere. Barea repeatedly used Nowitzki screens and Oklahoma City¡¦s unwillingness to leave him. Barea drove to the rim and stepped back for jumpers to score 12 points in seven minutes and keep the Dallas lead at 15.

When the Mavericks went cold, however, Durant and the Thunder made their move with a 10-0 run that brought them within five.

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/sports/bk/bkn/7569432.html#ixzz1O2ExhdiF
