The Mavericks, coming off a nine-day layoff after sweeping the two-time defending NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers, rode Dirk Nowitzki's 48 points Tuesday to defeat the Thunder 121-112 for their seventh consecutive postseason victory.

Game 2 is here Thursday (ESPN, 9 p.m. ET). The Thunder haven't lost two in a row since April 2.

    BOX SCORE: Mavericks 121, Thunder 112
    PHOTO GALLERY: Top images from the NBA playoffs
    SCHEDULE: Complete matchups, dates and results

The Thunder had no answer for Nowitzki, who shot 12-for-15 from the field and a record 24-for-24 from the free throw line, including a playoff record-tying 13-for-13 in the third quarter. "He's reading situations extremely well," Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said of Nowitzki's sixth 40-point playoff effort.

Thunder power forwards Serge Ibaka and Nick Collison picked up their fourth fouls early in the third quarter trying to contain the 7-footer. Oklahoma City was forced to use 6-9 Kevin Durant and Thabo Sefolosha, a 6-5 shooting guard who also picked up three of his four fouls guarding Nowitzki.

Although noted for his long-range shooting, Nowitzki didn't take a three-point shot. He made the extra dribble to get a higher-percentage shot or the extra pass to get a teammate an open look as Dallas shot 53.4% from the field.

"I was really looking to shoot early and was able to get my rhythm after the first couple of shots," Nowitzki said. "I kept attacking and my teammates kept feeding me and feeding me and I was able to take advantage over some smaller players."

The Thunder ¡X fresh off a seven-game series against Memphis that included a total of four overtimes ¡X led by nine early in the second quarter, then went 6:28 between baskets. They missed 10 shots during that drought and were down by 11 when it ended. They eventually trailed by 16 before clawing within five points with 3:42 left, and six with 48.5 seconds to play.

Kevin Durant (FSY) followed his 39 points in Game 7 of the previous round by scoring 40, one shy of his playoff high. While Nowitzki dominated, Durant's scoring binge merely helped his team stay close.

Russell Westbrook (FSY) went from a triple-double in his last game to 20 points, three assists and three rebounds. He missed 12 of his 15 shots, including 10 of his first 11. Despite his poor aim, he had taken more shots than Durant at one point late in the third quarter, fueling the critics who say he's too much of a scorer and not enough of a distributor.

The Thunder's big problem, though, was Nowitzki.

Six guys tried stopping him, and the big German either shot over them or put them in foul trouble. He made 13 free throws in the third quarter alone. And when Oklahoma City sent a second defender at him, Nowitzki usually passed to the teammate left open.

When things tightened up in the final minutes, Nowitzki helped protect Dallas' lead with two jumpers over the outstretched arms of 6-foot-10 Serge Ibaka, and an assist on a three-pointer by Terry with 28.9 seconds left. Chants of "M-V-P!" echoed almost every time he went to the foul line in the fourth quarter.

Oklahoma City coach Scott Brooks (FSY) is going to have to figure something out quick.

The good news for Brooks is that his youngsters kept scrapping all the way to the end. Down a lot on the road to a well-rested veteran team, they could have considered this game a lost cause and saved energy for the next game. Perhaps they remembered Dallas' history of blowing big, late leads. Earlier this postseason, the Mavericks coughed up a 23-point lead over the final 14 minutes against Portland.

"It was closer than we wanted in the fourth quarter, but we came through," Nowitzki said.

Shawn Marion (FSY) scored 11 points and Jason Kidd (FSY) had 11 assists and three steals. His only points came on a three-pointer set up by Westbrook abandoning him for one of those ill-fated double-team attempts on Nowitzki.

After tying a playoff record with 20 three-pointers in its last game, Dallas missed its first six tries from behind the arc. The Mavericks finished 9-for-23 on three-pointers. Terry was 4-for-8 after going 9-for-10 in the close-out game against the Lakers.

The Mavs came out sharp, hitting seven of their first 10 shots, only to slip into a funk that left them down by seven points at the start of the second quarter. Then they found the groove they had in their last game.

Dallas scored 35 points in the period, including a 13-0 stretch that began after Perkins' right elbow inadvertently conked Marion's nose. Marion went down and writhed on the court as play continued. Officials didn't notice and Mavs coach Rick Carlisle got a technical foul on his way to his injured player, presumably for pointing out what the officials didn't see.

The trainer cleaned up Marion quickly and, with a plug of gauze up his right nostril, he was part of the game-changing run, even scoring the go-ahead basket on a dunk.

