The Mavericks may not have wanted to admit it after they won Game 1.

But after this, there can be no denying the obvious: They lost their defensive swagger sometime during their layoff between the sweep of the Los Angeles Lakers and the Oklahoma City Thunder's 106-100 victory in Game 2 on Thursday night at American Airlines Center.

The Western Conference finals is tied at a win apiece after the Thunder exploited a flimsy Mavericks defense. The series shifts to Oklahoma City for Game 3 on Saturday night with the Mavericks knowing they will have to win at least once on the Thunder's floor to advance to the NBA Finals.

James Harden had a huge night off the bench for the Thunder with 23 points, which was all the support Kevin Durant needed as he rolled up 24 points. The Thunder shot 55.7 percent for the game.

Rick Carlisle had suspected for two days since Game 1 that the Mavericks' defense was not up to snuff.

"He was upset about it," said Tyson Chandler of Carlisle's thoughts on the defense during practices Wednesday and Thursday morning. "And he should have been. But it was eight days off and it was tough for us being out there communicating and being together and being on a string, something we were in a rhythm with before. Our timing was off."

Everybody expected the Mavericks to be better in Game 2, but they weren't. The Thunder sliced up the Mavericks.

They were up 102-92 with under three minutes to play and the Mavericks tried to pull off a valiant rally. With Dirk Nowitzki doing the damage, they got within 102-98 before Nick Collison made two free throws.

Nowitzki then made two of three with 36.7 seconds left. The middle shot was the first one in the series he missed after making his first 39. The Thunder then milked the clock and suffered a shot-clock violation with 12.7 left.

The Mavericks still needed two possessions to pull it out. But Peja Stojakovic missed a three-pointer and the Thunder had done what they needed to by stealing one of the first two at AAC.

The Mavericks were down by eight when Oklahoma City scored the first six points of the third quarter and it was a struggle from there.

DeShawn Stevenson helped keep the Mavericks within range not with any shooting but with his defense on Durant during the first eight minutes of the third quarter. Durant had a difficult time shaking Stevenson, who got an applause from coach Rick Carlisle when he came out of the game with 3:18 to go in the period.

And yet, the Mavericks couldn't run down the Thunder. As their defense, stiffened briefly, their offense lost its way.

They were 4-of-16 in the third quarter until they nailed their last two shots from the field, including a Stojakovic 3-pointer.

By all rights, the Mavericks should have had a lead going into the fourth quarter, but Jason Terry pulled a bonehead move by fouling James Harden on a 3-pointer, which Harden made.

The four-point play put the Thunder ahead 77-76 going into the final 12 minutes.

Before the game, Thunder coach Scott Brooks had lamented the poor job his team did in guarding Nowitzki in Game 1.

"We just have to play better on him," he said. "You can't foul him. It's 24 free throws. Fouling is a mistake.

"And we made a lot of mistakes on him."

The Thunder made one cardinal sin early in Game 2. And it had nothing to do with a Brian Cardinal sin.

Jason Kidd took the ball on the baseline after Durant turned it over. The referee gave Kidd the ball and he threw a baseball pass to Shawn Marion three-quarters of the way down the court.

The Thunder had fallen asleep after the turnover and Kidd, showing his 38 years of wisdom, made them pay for it. The Marion dunk came in the middle of a 10-0 run that gave the Mavericks a 21-11 lead midway through the half.

Kidd was doing it all early. But when he took a rest late in the first quarter and early in the second, things did not go swimmingly for his teammates.

When he went out with 1:19 to go in the opening stanza, the Mavericks were up 28-19. When he was still out with 9:49 to go in the second period, the Thunder had gone ahead 40-35.

To his credit, Rick Carlisle did not panic and put Kidd back in without his usual rest. The Mavericks responded with an 11-2 blitz that was highlighted when Stojakovic picked Russell Westbrook's pocket cleanly. It was one of three turnovers in four possessions for the Thunder.

The Mavericks, however, were not playing the kind of defense that got them to this point. The Thunder had a 33-point second quarter, when 10 of 15 shots fell for the visitors, who owned a 59-57 halftime lead.

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/20/2888516/mavericks-lose-defensive-intensity.html#ixzz1O2LOrIvt


