Dirk Nowitzki scores 29 points and we ask what's wrong.

He blitzes Oklahoma City for 16 points in the final quarter and we wonder why he didn't do more.

Nowitzki wasn't bad in Thursday night's loss to the Thunder. But he wasn't dominant. He didn't do enough in key moments to prevent the Mavericks first postseason loss in nearly a month.

No one expected Nowitzki to match his surreal performance to open the Western Conference finals. Those 48-point gems don't come around every other day.

But did anyone expect Nowitzki to enter the final quarter of Game 2 with more assists (five) than baskets (three)? Is seven shots entering the fourth quarter enough for a player of Nowitzki's magnitude.

Of course not. The Thunder did a good defensive job on the Mavericks power forward, but not that good. The Mavericks were content too often not to get the ball to their best player.

Nowitzki did his best to take over the game the moment the fourth quarter started. He made as many baskets in the first three minutes as he did in the first three quarters combined. When he took Nick Collison into the low post and scored midway through the period, he pulled the Mavericks within three points at 95-92.

On the Mavericks' next possession he put the ball on the floor, had it knocked loose then had his shot blocked. He put the ball on the floor on his next possession and had that knocked away as well.

With 36.7 seconds left and the Mavericks down by six points, Nowitzki was fouled on a 3-pointer. He missed his first free throw of the series and converted only two to leave his team down by four points.

Oklahoma City made no secret of its defensive plan entering this game. The Thunder had to do a better job on Nowitzki. If not, the visitors would go north of the border with an 0-2 deficit and virtually no chance of winning this series.

The assumption was Oklahoma City would come hard at Nowitzki with a second defender whenever he touched the ball and hope not to get burned by the Mavericks 3-point shooters.

You know what they say about assuming.

The Thunder did send the occasional double-team Nowitzki's way once he put the ball on the floor. But that was the change-up.

Serge Ibaka, Collison or whoever took their turn on the Mavericks power forward usually played him straight up. What Oklahoma City did in this game that they didn't do in Game 1 was beat Nowitzki to his spot on the floor. They fronted him rather than play behind him when he dipped before the free throw line.

They crowded him at the top of the key without fouling him.

"Make him put it on the floor, crowd his space," Brooks said before the game.

"We just have to play better on him. You can't foul him. The guy only averaged six free throws for the year and he gets 24 in one game. We have to guard him without fouling.

"Fouling is a mistake, and we made a lot of mistakes on him."

Brooks made it clear he wasn't complaining. Nowitzki earned those trips to the free throw line because the Thunder wasn't disciplined enough defensively.

"It was bad technique," Brooks said. "We were using our hands instead of our bodies. We have to make sure we get into him and push us off with our bodies within the rules."
Posted on Fri, May. 20, 2011 03:00 AM

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/20/2888517/nowitzki-cant-shoulder-the-whole.html#ixzz1O2baWlw0
