For the first time since the infamous Brandon Roy game, and for only the second time in these playoffs, the Mavericks' bench got outplayed Thursday night at American Airlines Center.

Badly so, by their Thunder counterparts.

Jason Terry only managed eight points, after scoring 24 in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals. Two nights after outscoring Oklahoma City's bench, 53-22, in that game, Dallas' bench players were overmatched on both ends of the court in Game 2, getting outscored 50-29.

Left-handed guard James Harden not only scored 23 points off the bench, but was largely responsible for clamping down on Terry. Backup point guard Eric Maynor was so effective, while scoring 13 points, that star Russell Westbrook sat the bench the entire fourth quarter.

"I thought the 50 points that they gave us was the game," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said of his bench, then repeated himself for emphasis. "It was the game. They really did a good job."

It was a stunning development for a Mavericks team that had averaged 41.6 points in bench production during the playoffs. Dallas is 8-1 during the playoffs when its bench outscores the opposing bench, and in many of those games it wasn't even close.

Remember the final game of the Lakers sweep, when Terry, Peja Stojakovic and J.J. Barea combined for 75 points off the bench and rained in three-pointer after three-pointer?

That afternoon is a distant memory now, and not just because it happened more than 10 days ago. Now, thanks to Oklahoma City's 106-100 in Game 2, Dallas has lost homecourt advantage to the Thunder.

"I thought their bench really changed the game and killed us in the fourth," Dirk Nowitzki said. "I thought our bench was the difference in the first game. Their bench really took that challenge today and really came out swinging and took it to us."

The Mavericks' bench had not been outplayed like this since Game 4 of the Portland series, when Roy came off the bench to lead the Blazers from an 18-point fourth quarter deficit.

Besides slowing Nowitzki after his 48-point performance in Game 1, Oklahoma City's secondary focal point in Game 2 appeared to be Terry.

It worked. Terry scored four first-quarter points - and just four more during the final three quarters, finishing 3-of-9 from the field.

"It's obvious and evident that whichever bench makes an impact on the game is going to have a better chance at winning," Terry said. "And tonight, give their bench a lot of credit."

Afterward, the Mavericks talked about how the athletic Thunder players made a concerted effort to swarm Dallas' pick-and-rolls and pretty much everything else on the perimeter.

"We did a good job on Jason Terry," Brooks said. "He's a factor, and we knew that, and we just wanted to get a bit closer to him. We wanted to keep it simple - get close to him, make him feel our presence."

Terry was coming off a 24-point performance in Game 1 and, before that, a spectacular 32-point outing in Game 4 of the Lakers series, a game in which he made 9-of-10 3-point shot attempts. When the final buzzer sounded Thursday, Terry yanked off his headband in frustration and trailed along with his teammates off the floor.

Along with his offensive problems, Terry fouled Harden at the end of the third quarter as the left-hander sank a 3-pointer. The four-point play gave Oklahoma City a 77-76 lead entering the final period.

"I have no idea," said Terry, when asked if he touched Harden. "But they called it. They got a four-point play and it gave them momentum. That's the type of night it was for us."

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/20/2888710/mavericks-bench-loses-its-depth.html#ixzz1O2bkhh5K
