Coach Erik Spoelstra will spend a significant amount of time on rebounding after the Chicago Bulls crushed Miami on the glass in Chicago's 103-82 victory Sunday in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals.

Not only did the Bulls beat the Heat on the boards 45-33, they abused them on the offensive glass with 19 rebounds to Miami's six.

    GAME 1: Bulls own second half, dump Heat
    BOX SCORE: Bulls 103, Heat 82
    PHOTO GALLERY: Top images from the NBA playoffs
    SCHEDULE: Complete matchups, dates and results

"They're a great offensive rebounding team. ¡K Sometimes, it was an assault on the glass. ¡K That's what they do, and it simply overwhelmed us tonight," Spoelstra said.

Rebounding concerned Miami before the series began. In three regular-season games ¡X all Chicago victories ¡X the Heat were outrebounded 151-99, including 33-20 on the offensive end.

"They dominate the rebounding area, and they do that to a lot of teams," Spoelstra said prior to Game 1. "We're a much better rebounding team than we showed in those games. We have to prove it. But it's going to be with a mentality and a physicality standpoint. "

Miami did not do that. At least in Game 1. Rebounding remains a concern for Miami headed into Game 2 Wednesday in Chicago (TNT, 8:30 p.m.).

During the regular season, Chicago outrebounded opponents by nearly seven rebounds a game. The Bulls also had a four-offensive-rebounds-per-game edge.

The Heat gave up put-backs at the rim and long rebounds, including ones the shooter corralled. Eight of center Joakim Noah's 14 rebounds were offensive.

The Bulls outscored the Heat 31-8 on second-chance points, and those extra opportunities allowed Chicago to become the first team to score 100 points against the Heat in the playoffs.

"It's demoralizing for a defensive team," Heat forward LeBron James said. "We've got to figure out a way to clean it up."

Chicago dominated the glass on a night when centers Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Erick Dampier were on the inactive list. Miami didn't have the length and size to contain Chicago's big men.

"Losing a lot of those effort areas and second chance points really deflated us, and then we lost our concentration on the offensive end and the game got away from us," Spoelstra said.

In the third quarter, Miami shot 46.7% from the field compared to Chicago's 33.3%.

But the Bulls had six offensive rebounds, Miami had none and a 48-48 halftime score became a 72-63 Bulls lead after three quarters.

"It was too much to overcome," Spoelstra said. "All of those tips after 16-20 seconds of solid defense really took away some of our focus."

Gibson's powerful one-handed putback dunk off a missed shot with 38.3 seconds left in the fourth quarter put a emphatic exclamation point on Chicago's offensive rebounding prowess. It gave the Bulls a 103-80 lead.

Heat forward Chris Bosh scored a game-high 30 points, but the Bulls limited guard Dwyane Wade (18 points) and James (15 points), something the Boston Celtics were not able to do in the conference semifinals.

It looked like Wade and James were off to those fantastic games where it is difficult to stop them. James blocked a shot on Chicago's first possessions and threw a pass to Wade for a dunk. James stole the ball on Chicago's next possession and converted a dunk.

James and Wade got to the rim early and often, and Miami had eight fastbreak points in the first quarter. The Heat had just two the rest of the way as Chicago tightened up its transition and halfcourt defense.

"You have to give their defense credit," Spoelstra said. "In the first half, we were able to shot 48%, I believe, so the ball was moving. ... They did some things that helped keep the ball on one side and stagnated a little bit. But we have to better. We'll made those adjustments in Game 2."

James shot 5-of-15 and matched the fourth-lowest playoff point total of his career.

"They make you take tough shots," he said. "I missed a number of shots I normally make. It's just one of those nights that individually I didn't have it going."

Neither did Wade who was 7-of-17.

Spoelstra admitted rebounding won't be the only area of focus. Miami allowed Chicago to shoot 10-of-21 (47.6%) shooting on three-pointers and recorded 23 assists on 38 baskets.

"We'll adjust. That won't be the only thing we have to adjust," Spoelstra said of rebounding. "But certainly the fistfight under the glass will be a start."

