That mission to win an NBA title just got a whole lot tougher for the Dallas Mavericks.

With the Oklahoma City bench getting the best of the Mavericks, the Thunder erupted for a wild 106-100 victory Thursday night at American Airlines Center to square this best-of-seven Western Conference finals series at 1-1.

Game 3 will be Saturday at 8 p.m. CDT in Oklahoma City and Game 4 is set for Monday at 8 p.m. in OKC before the series shifts back to Dallas for Game 5 on Wednesday at 8 p.m.

James Harden came off the bench to tally 10 of his 23 points in the fourth quarter and backup point guard Eric Maynor added 13 points as the Thunder reserves outscored the Mavericks' bench players by a whopping 50-29 margin.

"That was a heck of a win for us," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said. "Everybody chipped in. Our bench has been great all year, and I thought they were very good tonight. I think the 50 points they gave us was the game."

Meanwhile, the Mavericks got 29 points from Dirk Nowitzki. But he had to work much harder for them than he did in Game 1 when he scored 48 points.

For the most part, the Thunder kept Nowitzki bottled up all night. Nowitzki had 13 points in the first half, but didn't score again until the 10:58 mark of the fourth quarter.

However, Nowitzki scored 16 points in the fourth quarter and was in position to make it a one possession game when he was fouled by Nick Collison while attempting a 3-point shot with 36.7 seconds remaining. But Nowitzki missed the middle of the three free throws - snapping his streak of 39 consecutive made free throws - and left the Mavericks in a two-possession hole at 104-100.

The Thunder committed a shot-clock violation on the ensuing trip up the floor. But the lights went dim on the Mavericks when Peja Stojakovic's 3-pointer clanked off the rim with nine seconds left.

Thabo Sefolosha closed the scoring by burying a pair of free throws with 8.4 seconds to go and giving the Thunder their much-needed split.

"A seven-game series is long. When you win, you feel jubilant. When you lose, it's tough," Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. "We have to circle the wagons tomorrow and adjust where we need to adjust."

Kevin Durant poured in 24 points on 11 of 23 shooting and Russell Westbrook added 18 points on 7 of 15 shots. But Westbrook didn't play at all in the fourth period as Brooks was pleased with the play of Maynor, who connected on five of his nine shots.

The 21-year-old Harden was the major thorn for the Mavericks. He connected on a 3-point basket and converted the ensuing free throw - after he was fouled by Jason Terry - with 7.5 seconds left in the third quarter.

Harden then opened the fourth period with a 3-pointer for an 80-76 OKC cushion. From there, Harden just kept coming and the Mavericks had no answer for him.

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/20/2888708/this-time-bench-helps-thunder.html#ixzz1O2bquAux

