Scott Brooks reaches way back to Rockets days, makes a gutsy call

Say what you will now about how the Thunder were playing with Russell Westbrook on the bench, about the way Eric Maynor was running the team and the notions of sticking with the hot hand.

With seven minutes left, J.J. Barea drilled a 3. Dallas was within one. The game was on the line. The Western Conference Finals might have been at stake, too.

Russell Westbrook can be shaky down the stretch at times, but the Thunder have gotten this far with him handling the ball and making plays that needed to be made in those final seven minutes on Thursday. He has taken more than his share of criticism this postseason, but the Thunder・s faith in him and especially in his future have not been shaken.

That・s when Scott Brooks made a tremendously gutsy call.

He stuck with Eric Maynor. Westbrook remained on the bench, fidgeting anxiously and taking the counsel of those around him, especially Mo Cheeks.

It seems like the move to make now. Maynor was playing well. James Harden was phenomenal. The small lineup was working. But had the Thunder lost, the second-guessing would have come flying at the Thunder like those tornadoes that rip across Oklahoma. Westbrook, still an emotional, young player, would have had his confidence in pieces. The Thunder would hit a must-win Game 3 with Lakers levels of drama.

That made the decision that seems clear now as spectacularly gutsy as it was effective. This series is just beginning and it looks like it could be a long way. But if the young Thunder find themselves in the Finals, they can point to the decision made with seven minutes left on Thursday.

Then again, maybe it should not be surprising.

Brooks won a championship with the Rockets. His role? Backup point guard who finished games while the starter watched. Eventually, Sam Cassell took over as the closer. But Brooks has long seen a smart coach stick with a backup point and has a ring to prove it works.

***

There is another decision that should not go unnoticed. When the Thunder opted to trade Jeff Green, it was to get Kendrick Perkins to play center, but it was also to give more responsibility to James Harden.

On Thursday, Harden came within a point of leading the Thunder in points, rebounds, steals and assists. He is already OKC・s best passer. This does not look like a championship team yet, but he will be a huge part of the Thunder chances.

***

There might be a tendency to believe the Rockets indecision on the coaching position indicates Dallas・ Dwane Casey is the favorite among the finalists. Kevin McHale and Lawrence Frank are available now. Casey is not. If the Rockets keep waiting, they could be waiting for Casey.

That might eventually true, but they have not aimed for a decision this week. Morey is going back and forth between interviews with coaches and draft prospects. Leslie Alexander is out of the country.

If the Rockets had to make a decision now, they probably could. And they could certainly get every thought needed from the owner regardless of where he is, assuming he is not off climbing Kilimanjaro. But for now, it is still a three-coach race.