DALLAS ¡X The Oklahoma City Thunder knew the ticket to stealing home-court advantage in the Western Conference finals would be better defense and more Russell Westbrook.

They got both and a bonus 50 points from the bench Thursday as the Thunder overcame an 11-point deficit to knock off the Dallas Mavericks 106-100 in Game 2 and even the series.

The Thunder stopped Dallas' seven-game winning streak and dealt the Mavericks their first home loss of the playoffs.

Game 3 is Saturday in Oklahoma City (9 p.m. ET, ESPN).

James Harden led the Thunder bench with 23 points. Eric Maynor added 13 and played great defense in the fourth quarter.

    GAME 2: Thunder reserves lead road win
    PHOTOS: Top images from the postseason

The Thunder gave up 121 points in a Game 1 loss, allowed 53.4% shooting and let Dirk Nowitzki torch them for 48 points.

Thursday, the Thunder held him to 29 points and the Mavs to 43.8% shooting in their first victory against Dallas this season with Nowitzki in the lineup.

"Our guys in the second half really locked in defensively and did a great job contesting shots and making them miss some shots. We know that's how we have to play," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said.

Kevin Durant led the Thunder with 24 points and Westbrook had 18 as Oklahoma City shot 56%.

Westbrook scored six points in the third quarter, but his decision-making began to turn south again. After he was angry about a foul late in the quarter, Brooks pulled him and sat him for the fourth quarter.

"It was just the way the game was going," said Durant, who played with four reserves. "We had the five guys on the floor in sync. ¡K We had a good lead. Russell understands that."

Harden, Maynor, Nick Collison and Daequan Cook teamed with Durant to outplay Dallas in the fourth.

"I thought Eric did a good job," Brooks said.

"Russell is an incredible player, he's our starting point guard, but we weren't getting a lot of things done."

Westbrook said he was glad for the win and was "just sitting there waiting to get my name called."

After going 24-for-24 from the free-throw line in Game 1, Nowitzki went to the line just 10 times Thursday, making nine. He also shot 0-for-2 in the pivotal third quarter.

The teams had combined for 233 points in Game 1, so the Mavericks were not happy about their defense even in that win. They felt worse in Game 2.

"We felt we had a bad defensive effort in the first game and we couldn't do it again," Nowitzki said.

And the Mavs' bench, which got 53 points in Game 1, was held to 29.

"Sometimes you get your butt kicked, you've got to take it like a man," Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said.

"We've got to respond."