t doesn't happen often but it occurred Thursday night in Dallas. The Mavericks were outplayed by another team's bench.

Oklahoma City's reserves outscored the Mavericks' backups 50-29, helping the Thunder take Game 2 of the Western Conference finals, 106-100.

"I can't remember the last time we lost the battle of the bench," Mavericks backup point guard J.J. Barea said. "It was going to happen at some point and it happened tonight, and I give them a lot of credit."

April 23 in Portland was the last time another team's bench bested the Mavericks' reserves. The Trail Blazers used 24 points from Brandon Roy to outscore the Mavericks' backups 31-27. That was also the Mavericks' last postseason defeat, 84-82 in Game 4 of the first round.

Guards James Harden and Eric Maynor came off the Thunder's bench and combined for 36 points on Thursday. Harden netted 23 and Maynor added 13 after the two contributed a total of 12 points in Game 1.

And Harden's efforts were bigger than just his point total. It was when he scored his buckets. The third pick of the 2009 NBA Draft completed a four-point play with less than 10 seconds remaining in the third quarter. The triple and free throw put the Thunder ahead 77-76 entering the fourth and they never trailed again.

"When James has big games, we win," Thunder center Kendrick Perkins said.

The Mavericks loss evens the best-of-seven series at one game apiece with Game 3 coming Saturday night in Oklahoma City.

"Sometimes you get your butt kicked," Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said. "You've got to take it like a man, and hey, we've got to respond."

So who has the momentum right now?

Dirk Nowitzki believes it belongs to the Thunder.

"They've got all the momentum, so we've got to snatch it," he said.

Nowitzki added: "We've got to go up there in a tough environment and a very loud building and execute and play Mavs basketball, and get back to getting some stops like we did in the first two series. And I like our chances."
