OKLAHOMA CITY, Oklahoma ¡X Dirk Nowitzki and Shawn Marion both scored 18 points as the Dallas Mavericks held on for a 93-87 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder in game three of their NBA semi-final playoff series.

Jason Kidd finished with 13 points and eight assists for Dallas who took a 2-1 series lead and managed to hold NBA scoring champion Kevin Durant to just seven-of-22 shooting from the field.

"It was a great defensive effort early on. It set the tone for us," Nowitzki said. "We just played off our defence and executed well. We had more aggression to our play."

It was the fourth consecutive win on the road in the post-season for Dallas who tied the Miami Heat for the best road record in the 2010-11 regular season.

Nowitzki struggled early, shooting just seven-of-21 from the field but came on in the clutch for the Mavericks by scoring three key late baskets.

"He's the best, even if he's not making shots early he wants the ball to make a play," Kidd said of Nowitzki.

Jason Terry chipped in with 13 points for Dallas while Tyson Chandler had 15 rebounds, including a half dozen on the offensive end.

Thunder star Durant also struggled at times Saturday but finished with 12 rebounds to go with his 24 points.

Russell Westbrook responded to a fourth-quarter benching in the last game to score 30 points.

"They doubled a lot more off pick-and-rolls and post-ups. They made it tough for us," Durant said. "We have to figure out ways to have a better start."

The Mavericks built a big lead in the first half and at one point led by as many as 23 points before Oklahoma City mounted a comeback. Dallas also held the Thunder to just 29 percent shooting from the field in the first half.

"Dallas came out and did a great job with their defensive pressure," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said. "They took us out of our sets and trapped the basketball, just got us playing on our heels.

"I give our guys a lot of credit, they made it a game in the fourth quarter."

Game four of the Western Conference final series will also be in Oklahoma City on Monday.

