The Dallas Mavericks and the Oklahoma City Thunder are a study in contrasts, representing the old and the new as they vie for supremacy in the N.B.A.・s Western Conference.

The Mavericks have players with finals experience. Dirk Nowitzki, Jason Terry and Jason Kidd, and their coach, Rick Carlisle, took two teams to conference finals.

The Thunder, aiming to arrive before what many would consider their time, are led by the rising stars Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook. The true test for Westbrook is whether he is mature enough to ignore his fourth-quarter benching in Game 2 for the rest of the series. Kendrick Perkins has a championship ring, but he has been with the team only since February and is still acclimating to his new teammates.

The two teams have also taken different approaches to this best-of-seven series, which was tied at a game apiece entering Game 3 on Saturday night in Oklahoma City. Dallas dispatched the Lakers in four games. Oklahoma City engaged in a grueling seven-game series with the surprisingly determined Memphis Grizzlies.

One theme before the conference finals was the effect of those first-round series. Would the Mavericks be too rested after the sweep, or did they need it for their 30-something knees? Would the Thunder be too tired, or would the experience of a seven-game series help against Dallas?

After two games, some of those questions were being answered. Center Tyson Chandler said the layoff of more than a week had slowed Dallas・s momentum, although the Mavericks won Game 1.

：I think having such a long layoff that we did, I think we lost our concentration, how we were winning basketball games,； he said. ：It・s just about getting back to it, you know. It・s not something I don・t think that we can・t get back to. We definitely can. Now it・s just about doing it.；

In 10 playoff games before the conference finals, the Mavericks had not allowed an opponent to score 100 points. Oklahoma City scored 112 in its Game 1 loss and followed with 106 points to win Game 2.

：I feel like we have got to play with a greater edge for sure, yes,； Carlisle said. ：I don・t think we・ve lost it, but I think we・ve got to play with more of an edge, yes.；

Oklahoma City is hopeful that it has found a defender who can limit Nowitzki, or at least not give him open looks at the basket. Nowitzki sprinted for 48 points in the series opener. With Nick Collison defending him for long stretches in Game 2, he still managed 29 points. But Nowitzki also went long stretches without scoring and did not have a point in the third quarter.

：I think the biggest thing is we played without fouling,； Collison said, ：so we were able to push them off of spots a little bit, but we kept our hands out of there. When you touch guys with the hands as opposed to your body, they・re more likely to get fouled. But I think over all we competed hard, and our defense at the point of the ball was better, which led to us being in better position to fight him off his spot a little bit more. It・s just an accumulation I think of more effort and better play.；


