CHICAGO ¡X The talk before the series centered on the Miami Heat's Big Three and the Chicago Bulls' Derrick Rose. As much as anything, Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals Sunday was decided by the nine others in Bulls uniforms.

Chicago's front line dominated the backboards and the bench contributed 28 points, 14 rebounds and two eye-popping dunks from Taj Gibson in the Bulls' 103-82 victory.

"You can count on their energy every night. They all bring something different," Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said of his bench.

    GAME 1: Bulls own second half, dump Heat
    BOX SCORE: Bulls 103, Heat 82
    PHOTO GALLERY: Top images from the NBA playoffs
    SCHEDULE: Complete matchups, dates and results

Chicago held a 45-33 rebounding edge, 19-6 on the offensive glass, and recorded 31 second-chance points to neutralize the Heat's superstars.

"It deflated us," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said of the second-chance points. "All of those tip-ins after 16 to 20 seconds of solid defense really took away some of our focus."

Joakim Noah had 14 rebounds, Carlos Boozer added nine and Luol Deng seven. Many led to easy points.

"Joakim finishing layups and dunking, Booz doing the same thing," said Rose, who finished with a team-high 28 points and no second-half turnovers after committing four in the first half.

Gibson said Rose addressed the team at halftime, when the score was 48-48, and said he'd step it up. "He talked about it. He blamed himself. ¡K He stepped up and said, 'My bad, everybody, on the turnovers,' " Gibson said. "That's what leaders do."

Deng, in addition to his 21 points, seven boards, four steals and one block, was the principal defender in limiting LeBron James to 15 points on 5-for-15 shooting.

"It took a group effort, guys staying focused on the game plan," Deng said. "And he really had some shots he normally makes that he didn't make, so we're not going to take all the credit."

Boozer said, "Luol's our unsung hereo. ¡K He's our iron man ¡X he played over 40 minutes a night and locks up the other team's best player. ¡K Joakim was a monster on the glass, of course, like normal."

The Bulls played their first impressive Game 1 of the playoffs, after struggling in a victory against the Indiana Pacers and a loss to the Atlanta Hawks. But they know it's just the start.

"We're going to get a lot of praise right now because we won the way we won, but there's a lot of basketball to be played," Noah said. "The boards are a big part of winning a basketball game. They're going to come harder and we know that.

"But you know what? We're going to come harder too."