OKLAHOMA CITY ¡X The Dallas Mavericks breathed an epic sigh of relief Saturday night, which for these aging veterans has become increasingly difficult in a Western Conference finals series filled with wild emotional swings. 

The clock could not tick quickly enough as the Mavericks fought off the youthful Oklahoma City Thunder to take a 2-1 series lead. Patience and experience resulted in a 93-87 victory for the Mavericks, whose adjustments on defense finally came to fruition as they held the Thunder under 100 points.

¡§This is the way we have to play,¡¨ Mavericks guard Jason Terry said. ¡§We were patient and found our shots on the offensive end, and we fought for every inch of the court on defense. A game like this, coming off a loss and coming into their place, you have to come out with anger and intensity. And we maintained our poise in the end.¡¨

 Dallas led by 22 points in the second half, but Russell Westbrook hit a 3-pointer ¡X the Thunder¡¦s first of the game ¡X with 35 seconds to play to cut the deficit to 5 points and offer hope. Oklahoma City closed within 4 twice in the final 24 seconds, but a pair of Dirk Nowitzki free throws and two more by Terry ended the game.

 

 ¡§We played championship-level defense for the first time in the series, and now the challenge is to sustain it,¡¨ Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle said.

 ¡§When you come up against a very different kind of opponent like they are, you can get seduced a little bit into a different style of play, and you can get seduced out of what¡¦s made you successful. That happened to us the first couple games.¡¨

 

Nowitzki and Shawn Marion led the Mavericks with 18 points apiece. Jason Kidd and Terry scored 13 each. But the Mavericks needed their veteran savvy, with Nowitzki hitting only 7 of 21 attempts and Terry struggling on 3-of-12 shooting.

The Thunder hit only one 3-point shot in 17 attempts and finished with 36.5 percent shooting. ¡§They got us on our heels, and we started missing shots, and that¡¦s not the way we play,¡¨ Thunder Coach Scott Brooks said. ¡§We did not play well from the start. But give our guys credit. They were still fighting and trying to find it. We just didn¡¦t have enough.¡¨

  Westbrook, whose fourth-quarter benching in Game 2 created controversy even in victory, scored 30 points. Kevin Durant added 24. The series continues here with Game 4 on Monday night.  

 Fear of a possible Mavericks meltdown emerged when Durant switched out to guard Nowitzki near the free-throw line with 8 minutes 57 seconds to play. Durant picked him clean and found James Harden breaking downcourt for a dunk that cut the Thunder deficit to 76-64.

 Durant¡¦s jumper had brought the Thunder to 70-56 through three quarters, unsettling the Mavericks and igniting the capacity crowd at Oklahoma City Arena during the wait for the fourth quarter to begin.

¡§We had to grind it out in the end, but we kept making plays,¡¨ Nowitzki said. ¡§We kept our composure when they made a run and hit some clutch shots.¡¨  

 The Mavericks notched their fourth playoff road victory.  They had eliminated the Trail Blazers in Portland in Game 6 and taken down the Lakers twice in Los Angeles en route to a sweep.

 But the Thunder is younger and quicker than those two opponents, a fact the Mavericks acknowledged from the start of this series and a reality that nearly came to haunt them Saturday night.

What had been a fractured Dallas defense mended itself in the first half as the Mavericks took a 52-36 lead. They led by as many as 23 points before the Thunder fought back. Oklahoma City shot 51 percent in the first two games, but dropped to 29 percent (10 of 34) in the half, missing all eight 3-point attempts. Durant misfired from the start, going 2 of 10, and was held to 10 points.

Westbrook scored 12 points in the half, but was cut off from driving the lane and found passing lanes clogged. He had two of the Thunder¡¦s five assists as the Mavericks schooled Oklahoma City on how to distribute the ball.

Dallas totaled 14 assists in the half, and rarely bothered to run possessions through Nowitzki, who took only four shots before halftime and scored 4 points. All nine Mavericks who took the court in the half scored, and they combined to shoot 53 percent (21 of 40). Marion was worked into the offense more and delivered 12 points in the half; Peja Stojakovic and Terry came off the bench to add 8 points apiece.

¡§We just played off our defense; we moved the ball, got some good looks, and really executed,¡¨ Nowitzki said.

Nowitzki and Durant are this series superstars, but they essentially have canceled out each other, leaving reserves to determine each outcome thus far. As in Game 1, the Mavericks¡¦ bench won that battle, outscoring Thunder backups, 28-16.

 ¡§That¡¦s the X-factor in this series,¡¨ Nowitzki said. ¡§Our bench responded and was real physical tonight and forced them into some shots they didn¡¦t like.¡¨

The Mavericks allowed 100 points in only two games during these playoffs, both against the Thunder, which had averaged 109 in the series. They talked of keeping Oklahoma City under that total as though it meant striking oil. Carlisle shrugged when asked about potential adjustments, matter-of-factly suggesting his players needed to drill down into their personal defensive reserves.

¡§Hope they miss, I guess,¡¨ Carlisle said of the Thunder before tip-off. ¡§Look, they¡¦ve hit tough shots. And they have that ability. But we¡¦ve let them get going early on, and that¡¦s been a factor. They¡¦ve had too much space to operate.¡¨

The Thunder¡¦s three best shooters promptly obliged, going a combined 2 of 11 in the first quarter as the Mavericks built a 27-12 lead.

¡§We¡¦ve got to get their point total down; it¡¦s that simple,¡¨ Carlisle said before the game. ¡§That¡¦s what it¡¦s going to come down to for us.¡¨ 