Heat vs. Bulls: Game 1 Was the Most-Viewed NBA Game in Cable TV History
Heat vs. Bulls Game 1 TV Viewership Historic

The opening game of the Eastern Conference finals between the Chicago Bulls and Miami Heat was reportedly the most-viewed NBA game in cable television history, TNT announced Monday.

The Bulls' 103-82 Game 1 win drew 11.1 million total viewers, topping TNT's previous record of 10.8 million viewers for Michael Jordan's last All-Star Game in 2003.

Roughly 4 million more viewers watched this season's opening game of the Eastern Conference finals than they did last year in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals.

Although the historic numbers weren't expected, the series does hold a lot of intrigue, and you can see why so many people tuned in on Sunday.

READ MORE: NBA Draft 2011: The Top 50 Prospects' Report Cards, Pre-NBA Lottery Update

On one hand, you have the Heat coming into Chicago, one of the most buzz-worthy teams we've seen in years, given the dynamic of having LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh on the same team. James and Wade have also developed a good deal of detractors after deciding to join up last summer.

James left his hometown of Cleveland, marked by the infamous "Decision" on ESPN, in which a one-hour special was followed by shock across the nation and contempt in Cleveland.

Wade, despite being pursued by his hometown Bulls, opted to bring his friends James and Bosh to Miami and try to win a championship there.

As for the Bulls, they are trying to win their first championship since the 1997-98 season in which Michael Jordan took his last shot in a Bulls uniform, the shot that won them the title.

The Bulls are hoping 22-year-old MVP Derrick Rose will be their next superstar to lead them to the promised land. Behind Rose is a rambunctious cast, ranging from Joakim Noah to Carlos Boozer to Taj Gibson.

There's so much to like about the series and so many storylines to follow, it's no wonder the audience is so vast.

The best thing about it is we still have plenty more to watch.

Here's to hoping the series lives up to its historic viewership.