OKLAHOMA CITY ¡X Somehow, with a rally almost beyond reason and certainly with little warning, Oklahoma City climbed from the wreckage of its spectacularly horrible shooting.

Things had been so bad that the ever-boisterous Thunder fans couldn¡¦t even plan the customary post-game trip to Oklahoma City¡¦s nearby Bricktown district because that would have been painfully redundant. The Dallas lead had reached 23. The Thunder had become dangerous not just to the rims but to those sitting too close to them. The rout seemed certain.

Then the Thunder began taking the ball to the basket and not only brought reminders of the Mavericks¡¦ 23-point collapse in Portland but erased the memories of the way they began the game.

That¡¦s where the Thunder went wrong. When Oklahoma City began firing 3s again down by six, the comeback came to a crashing halt and the Mavericks held on for a 93-87 win Saturday and a 2-1 lead in the Western Conference finals.

¡§Those were the shots that we usually make, especially at home,¡¨ said Thunder guard Russell Westbrook, who had 30 points and keyed the Oklahoma City run with drives to the rim. ¡§Tonight was just one of those nights where we could not knock any shots down.¡¨

They had begun the game misfiring, then got worse. Taken apart by a dramatically improved Dallas defense, Oklahoma City was 4-of-17 from the field in the first quarter, and two of those were tipped-in misses. By the time they trailed by 23, they were 4-of-19. They began the second half with Westbrook air-balling a 3 and fell to 0-for-7 in the half when Serge Ibaka could not get a piece of the rim on a layup.

Dallas ¡¥D¡¦ finally flexes

¡§We were much better defensively,¡¨ Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. ¡§We had to be. The first two games were poor. Tonight, we played championship-level defense for the first time in the series.¡¨

With the Mavericks challenging ball-handlers and trapping much more forcefully on screens, Kevin Durant struggled throughout the game, finishing 7-of-22 from the field and going 0-for-8 from beyond the arc. James Harden, who keyed the Game 2 rally went 2-of-9 overall, 0-for-4 on 3s.

Yet the Thunder rallied, with Westbrook taking the ball to the rim. But after coming from such a deep hole to trail by six with three minutes left, the Thunder went back behind the arc.

Westbrook missed a 3. Daequan Cook missed another. Harden missed another, dropping the Thunder to 0-for-16 from beyond the arc.

¡§Russell¡¦s 3 might have been an opportunity to attack because his attack game was on tonight,¡¨ Thunder coach Scott Brooks said. ¡§He was attacking the basketball the way he does. He¡¦s a very fearless attacker to the rim. (The next two) 3s, they were wide open. I cannot complain about those looks.¡¨

Nowitzki, Terry shine late

The Mavericks had not yet put the game away largely because their most reliable scorers, Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Terry, had struggled. With two minutes left, Nowitzki had just 14 points on 6-of-20 shooting. Terry had just nine on a 2-of-11 effort. But when the Thunder abandoned Durant down the stretch, Dallas went back to Nowitzki and Terry.

Durant started the fourth quarter with a dunk and a runner in the lane, but he took only two shots the rest of the game, with one a last-minute tip of a Westbrook miss. Terry pulled up for an 11-footer with 1:42 remaining and Nowitzki knocked down a jumper from 14 feet with 42.8 seconds left, both giving Dallas eight-point leads.

By then, the Mavericks needed only those last few shots because they had coaxed so many rim-clanging jumpers out of the Thunder early and with it still somehow to be decided late.

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/sports/bk/bkn/7575745.html#ixzz1O4yIZsE9


