The daily proving ground that lurks in front of the Dallas Mavericks like a minefield was confronting them once again.

They had done everything right for three-plus quarters Saturday night, and suddenly the crowd, the breaks and the Oklahoma City Thunder were about to explode on them.

When they needed it most to save a game and perhaps this magical season, the Mavericks got tough by doing what they've done best all season - sticking together.

After a Friday meeting in which helping each other on defense was stressed, the Mavericks followed their veteran leaders for a gutsy 93-87 victory that was heavy on resolve and defensive grit.

The victory at Oklahoma City Arena put the Mavericks up 2-1 in the best-of-7 Western Conference finals and meant they had regained the home-court advantage they gave away in Game 2.

"I know what we're capable of (defensively) because the first 10 games of the playoffs, we saw it," coach Rick Carlisle said. "When you come up against a different kind of opponent, you can get seduced a little bit into a different style of play. And you get seduced out of what's made you successful.

"I believe that happened to us. And so, you know, we refocused. Guys recommitted to the defensive end."

With Shawn Marion setting the tone from the beginning with hard-nosed defense on Kevin Durant and Jason Kidd "volunteering" for duty on Durant and Russell Westbrook, the Mavericks held the Thunder to 22 points below their average of the first two games in the series.

Kidd had a brilliant Game 3 with 13 points, eight assists, six rebounds and four steals. And he was a calming influence when the Mavericks needed it.

Dirk Nowitzki, meanwhile, had 10 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter, when the Mavericks had major problems scoring until free throws took over late.

The Mavericks never trailed and built a huge first-half lead. The Thunder got no closer than four down the stretch, never getting a chance to tie or take the lead. The 87 points Oklahoma City scored were 22 below what it averaged in the first two games of the series.

The Mavericks' lead was 23 points in the first half and was still at 70-52 with barely a minute left in the third quarter.

But the Thunder knocked in the final four points of the period and the first bucket of the fourth to make it a very manageable 12-point deficit.

The slow erosion of their lead continued as the Mavericks had trouble solving the Thunder defense in the late going.

And Westbrook, who had been stuck on the bench the entire fourth quarter in Game 2 when the Thunder pulled out the victory, was unstoppable.

He scored eight Thunder points in a row as his team trimmed the deficit to 80-74. Then James Harden, who was having a difficult offensive game, was fouled and hit two free throws to cut it to six.

The Mavericks knew what everybody was thinking.

"We've been here before," Kidd said, referring to the 23-point lead they lost in Game 4 against Portland in the first round.

This time, Nowitzki, who was having a tough time getting shots, much less making them, nailed two in a row to apply a temporary bandage.

The Thunder clawed back again and got within 84-78, but after six combined scoreless possessions, Jason Terry finally got loose off a pick-and-roll going to his right and hit a 14-footer from the wing for an eight-point advantage with 1:42 left.

After Durant hit two free throws, Nowitzki got loose for a 15-footer with 42.8 seconds left that made it 88-80, and the Mavericks hit enough free throws in the final possessions to hold on.

"We came out and did what we needed to do," Marion said. "We knew what we were capable of. It was a matter of us doing things we got away from, especially on the defensive end. We got away from communicating and we weren't the aggressors at the defensive end."

This time, they were, which is how they regained a foothold in this series.

BACK TO EARTH ON OFFENSE

After both teams scored at least 100 points in the first two games, Game 3 returned to more playoff-style basketball. A look at the key offensive numbers for each game:

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/22/2893155/revived-defense-puts-stop-to-thunder.html#ixzz1O51jC0uj

