Playing as if they were tired of getting slapped around on defense, the Dallas Mavericks finally stood up and did something about it.

Yet they still had to sweat out the final frantic six minutes.

Putting on a major defensive front for most of Game 3, the Mavs built a 23-point lead in the second quarter and held on for a 93-87 victory Saturday night at Oklahoma City Arena.

With the win, the Mavericks regained home-court advantage and lead the best-of-seven Western Conference championship series 2-1.

Game 4 is in Oklahoma City on Monday at 8 p.m. CDT before the scene shifts to Dallas for Game 5 at 8 p.m. Wednesday.

"We were much better tonight defensively. We had to be," Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. "We played championship-level for the first time in the series. Now the challenge is to sustain (it)."

Performing with a sense of urgency, the Mavs led the entire game in retaking control of this series. But it wasn't easy.

After the Mavs mounted that 23-point lead, the game started becoming eerily similar to that historic Game 4 in the first round of the playoffs against Portland. In that game, the Mavs also owned a 23-point lead but unceremoniously lost it and the game

But unlike in the Portland game, the Mavs didn't blow the entire 23-point lead. Things, however, did get hairy.

With Russell Westbrook lowering his shoulders and flying to the basket, the Thunder drew to within four points twice - the last time at 91-87 after a Nick Collison bucket with 17.6 seconds left.

Jason Terry, however, sealed it for Dallas with a pair of free throws with 14.2 seconds remaining and a steal of a pass by Westbrook.

Oklahoma City had averaged 109 points in earning a split of the first two games in Dallas. But the Mavs got aggressive and limited the Thunder to 36.5 percent shooting, including 1 of 17 on 3-point attempts.

"I knew what we're capable of (on defense) because the first 10 games of the playoffs we saw it," Carlisle said. "But you come up against a very different type of opponent, you get seduced a little bit into a different style of play, and you get a little bit seduced out of what made you successful.

"I believed that happened to us the first couple of games. And then you get hit in the face at home, it's sobering for everybody. But we refocused and guys got committed to the defensive end."

For the first three-plus quarters, the Mavs played with a focus and determination that became the norm when they swept the two-time defending NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers in the previous round of the playoffs.

The Mavs also won on a night when Dirk Nowitzki was sporadic and didn't do a lot of heavy lifting. After scoring 77 points in the first two games of this series, Nowitzki was held to just 18 points on 7-of-21 shooting, and he also made seven turnovers.

But Nowitzki hit a key basket with 42.8 seconds left to increase the Dallas lead to 88-80. He also nailed a pair of free throws to pad the lead to 91-85 with 23.3 seconds left.

"He's our guy and in the fourth quarter he's going to touch the ball as frequently as we can get it to him," Carlisle said. "When he misses a few shots he's not going to get perturbed, he's not going to get discouraged."

The Mavs got 18 points from Shawn Marion, 13 points and eight assists from Jason Kidd and 13 points and six assists from Jason Terry.

At the outset, what made the Mavs' fast start so impressive is they did it without getting much from Nowitzki. By the time Dallas built its lead to 35-12 with 10:08 left in the second period, Nowitzki had just four points.

Nowitzki, in fact, accumulated only four points in the first half - and the Mavs still took a 52-36 lead into the dressing room.

"They're making a great effort on Dirk," Carlisle said. "I don't know, in terms of legal limits, I believe the line may be crossed at times."

The Mavs started out with one of their more impressive first quarters of the playoffs.

But, Carlisle said: "The big key is we were able to get some stops when we needed them in the last 3 1/2 minutes."

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/22/2893128/mavericks-rely-on-defense-to-take.html#ixzz1O524ziOO


