OKLAHOMA CITY ¡V Three games into a series is more than enough time for a few noticeable trends to develop.

Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle has observed at least one that he knows he can count on going into Game 4 tonight at Oklahoma City Arena between his Mavericks and the Thunder.

¡§The team that wins gets their [expletive] kicked the next game,¡¨ Carlisle said. ¡§Really. that¡¦s what¡¦s happened.¡¨

Taken another way, the team with the most to lose seems to repeatedly find a way to fight off whatever impending doom being forecasted for them if they lose.

The Thunder did it in Game 2, winning on the Mavericks¡¦ home floor to keep from going into a two-game hole in the series. And the Mavericks returned the favor in Game 3, winning here snatch the momentum back and turning tonight¡¦s game into a for-all-the-marbles affair for both teams, but especially the Thunder.

So how do you reverse that trend if you¡¦re the Mavericks?

¡§We¡¦ve got to concentrate and be ready for what¡¦s coming at us tonight,¡¨ Carlisle said, ¡§which is going to be a lot of force. They¡¦re going to play a desperate game for sure. For 48 minutes we¡¦ve got to bring a level of intensity, a level of force and a lot of different things you have to do well. And regardless of the score, we¡¦ve got to be consistent.¡¨

Well aware that essentially everything they¡¦ve worked for is on the line in this one game, Thunder coach Scott Brooks refuses to lean on his team¡¦s fearlessness (and youth) over the body of work that led them to this point.

¡§Being good is better than the benefits of being young,¡¨ said Brooks, who has repeatedly dismissed this notion that his team¡¦s lack of experience is something to be used as either a tool or an excuse.

No one on either side of this budding rivalry has to be reminded of what¡¦s at stake tonight. Nine times in conference finals history the team with home court advantage has won Game 1, lost Game 2 and won Game 3 has gone on to win the series all but once. But just because the veterans on his team have been in these types of situations before doesn¡¦t give Carlisle any reason to relax.

¡§Experience helps but it never guarantees anything,¡¨ Carlisle said. ¡§We¡¦re in a building that is extremely difficult to play in. It¡¦s one of the best basketball atmospheres that there is. There is no question about that.And we¡¦ve got to look forward to playing in that environment. We¡¦re going against a team that has gained a lot of experience in a short period of time. And they¡¦re going to have basketball wisdom beyond their years because of what they¡¦ve been through in these playoffs. You get to a seven game series and you win in seven in the second round, that¡¦s a big deal. All those positive things carry forward to this series, so while I like our experience but it¡¦s no guarantee of anything.¡¨

