OKLAHOMA CITY -- The Dallas Mavericks expect nothing less than a full-on Oklahoma City Thunder blitz to start tonight's Game 4.

"We・ve got to be ready for what・s coming at us tonight, which is going to be a lot of force," Mavs coach Rick Carlisle said. "
"They・re going to play a desperate game."

The Mavs delivered high energy in Game 3 and turned it into a rout 14 minutes in. Thunder superstar Kevin Durant was 1-of-5 from the floor in the first quarter that included a rare airball from 3-point range (he was 0-of-8 from downtown overall), and 2-of-10 at the half. He showed frustrated as his misfires piled up.

He was hounded by Shawn Marion, DeShawn Stevenson and Jason Kidd. The 6-foot-5 Stevenson, who has surprisingly given Durant fits all season (Durant was 6-19 FGs against Stevenson entering the series), has seen his minutes drastically ramped up in the last two games to keep his physical brand of defense on the floor against Durant as well as Russell Westbrook.

He expects to be busy going up against a more determined Durant tonight.

"I think he・s going to come out and try to put the foot on the gas pedal," Stevenson said. "This is a big game for them and for us. He・s going to come out very aggressive, try to get to the foul line and how he shot from 3-point land, he・s going to be a little more keyed in."

After Durant's last poor playoff game, an 11-point outing in Game 6 (he was 1-of-9 on 3s) against Memphis, he came back with 39 points and four 3s in Game 7. Durant hasn't made a 3-pointer since Game 1 of the West finals, missing his last 13 attempts and he's 2-of-18 (11.1 percent) in the series.

Stevenson expects Durant to make runs at the basket, but he said he doesn't expect Durant to shy away from gunning the 3.

"His game is a jump-shooting-type game, step-back 3s," Stevenson said. "I think he・ll try to get to the basket, but at the end of the day, that・s Durant. He shoots a high volume of 3s, the mid-range shot, so I think he・s still going to come out and take the same shots."

