The Dallas Mavericks took a 3-1 series lead over the Oklahoma City Thunder Monday night in the Western Conference Finals, grinding out a 112-105 overtime victory made possible by a 17-2 run in the final five minutes of regulation. Keying the rally was¡Xwho else?¡XDirk Nowitzki, who has brought his game to an otherworldly level this spring. Of those 17 points in the late run, Nowitzki scored 12. He finished with 40. ¡§It was supposed to be the rise of the young Thunder,¡¨ CBSSports.com¡¦s Matt Moore writes. ¡§Instead it¡¦s Nowitzki¡¦s universe. And we¡¦re all just watching.¡¨ The NBA¡¦s official YouTube channel even saw fit to post a montage of Nowitzki¡¦s best from the game:

Despite a performance the Associated Press called ¡§epic,¡¨ Nowitzki shrugged it off. Asked about a surprising three-pointer he quickly launched during the comeback, the 7-footer seemed nonplussed. ¡§If it goes in, great,¡¨ Nowitzki told ESPN¡¦s John Hollinger. ¡§If not, it just wasn¡¦t our night.¡¨

It turned out to not be the Thunder¡¦s night. At all. Jonathan Feigen of the Houston Chronicle compares Monday night¡¦s collapse to the ¡§Choke City¡¨ performance of the 1994 Rockets. That year the Rockets blew a 20-point lead in the fourth quarter of a second-round game against Phoenix. It was the biggest blown fourth-quarter lead in the history of the NBA playoffs. But the Rockets recovered and went on to defeat the Suns and win the NBA title.

Feigen calls this loss worse, because it happened so quickly. ¡§The Mavericks tightened their grip on the fragile Oklahoma City offense, and the Thunder¡¦s young stars went through a complete meltdown,¡¨ Feigen writes. He remains concerned that the final five minutes may irreparably damage the team¡¦s psyche: ¡§They are not far removed from that 3-29 start to the 2008-09 season.¡¨ Jon Machota of the Dallas Morning News pointed to Thunder coach Scott Brooks rattling off all the incredible shots Nowitzki made in the final run. ¡§The Oklahoma City coach looked as if he had been awakened from a nightmare,¡¨ Machota writes, ¡§and Nowitzki was the monster haunting him.¡¨

The sports world gets its Harry Potter moment today, as ¡§Those Guys Have All The Fun: Inside the World of ESPN¡¨ is released and begins flying off shelves across the country. (It¡¦s already in Amazon¡¦s top 10.) The book, by James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales, is an oral history of the all-sports network, chronicling the station¡¦s rise from an experiment in sports programming to the international behemoth it is today. Over 550 employees were interviewed and the book clocks in at over 750 pages. (Full disclosure: I worked at ESPN from 2006-2008 as a low-level fantasy sports writer. I was not interviewed, although I can say without hesitation that 99% of the people I worked with there were some of the nicest in sports.)

Inside its pages are tales of sex, drugs and sports, all told from current and former anchors, producers, writers and analysts. A Keith Olbermann-centric excerpt in GQ gave would-be readers a taste of what the book holds. The positive buzz convinced the publisher, Little, Brown, and Company, to lift the embargo on advance copy reviews, allowing sites and blogs to run with some of the more salacious details. Those include: Bill Simmons saying he would have strangled Mike Tirico if he were Tony Kornheiser; Bob Knight calling Jeremy Schaap a very impolite name; Michelle Beadle admitting she watched the Erin Andrews peephole video; and Chris Berman accusing Kornheiser of helping to popularize a story about him that he says is wholly fabricated.

Still, the book isn¡¦t just catty comments and backstabbing employees. CNBC¡¦s Darren Rovell says that it¡¦s really the little things¡Xlike images of Olbermann typing with one hand and details about the salaries of the anchors¡Xthat makes the book interesting. ¡§If you want to know more about the supposed sex in the hallways or open use of drugs that has gotten so much airtime, you¡¦ll be disappointed,¡¨ Rovell writes. ¡§But if you want the highlights from the guys who brought you the highlights, all the essentials are there.¡¨
* * *

Friday¡¦s death of WWE legend ¡§Macho Man¡¨ Randy Savage brought with it a wave of nostalgic memories and a fair amount of kitsch. Facebook pages and Twitter accounts were littered with tributes, none as omnipresent as this clip from the 1980s:

But Savage¡¦s passing also brought with it two very insightful columns. At Deadspin, David Roher broke down the minor league baseball stats of Macho Man, a former prospect for the Reds and Cardinals playing under his birth name, Randy Poffo. His career lasted for four years. But Roher discovered that Poffo¡¦s final year in professional baseball, playing for the Single-A Tampa Tarpons in 1974, was marked with some bad luck in a park that had unfriendly dimensions. ¡§Had Poffo been a little bit luckier or had he played in a ballpark [that] was better suited to his strengths,¡¨ Roher writes, ¡§he might have put up similar numbers [to former major leaguer Gary Roenicke] and gotten a promotion.¡¨

In 1991, with his baseball career far behind him, Macho Man participated in Wrestlemania VII, one of several he took part in. But this particular Wrestlemania is poignant because, as first discovered by the subscription-only Wrestling Observer Newsletter, 14 of the 51 participants have died prematurely. Ryan Clark of WrestlingInc.com points out that of the 44 starters in Super Bowl XXV, the 44 boxers to hold a world title in 1991, and the 50 musicians performing at the 1991 and 1992 Monsters of Rock festivals in England, only two in the entire group (both boxers) have died.
* * *

Every once in a while an insanely good idea for a blog will pop into someone¡¦s head, and the world will be a better place for it. This is the case with The Greatest 21 Days, a website dedicated to presenting each card of the 1990 CMC minor league baseball set and chronicling the careers and biographies of every player featured. The site even has interviews. As of Tuesday morning, the site had chronicled 447 of the 880 cards, including those of future big leaguers Dave Justice, Chuck Knoblauch and Bernie WIlliams.