There was a time that Oklahoma City coach Scott Brooks experienced the pain of a late-game collapse. This was worse.

Brooks was there for Choke City, when the Rockets took an 18-point lead into the fourth quarter against the Suns, led by 20 and still lost the game, then the biggest collapse in NBA playoff history. This one was bigger.

The Rockets rallied back from that. After heading to the desert down 2-0, they rallied back, won the series and the first of two championships. This time, there will be no turnaround.

The Oklahoma City collapse was greater because it was all squeezed into five stunning minutes. The Mavericks tightened their grip on the fragile Oklahoma City offense, and the Thunder¡¦s young stars went through a complete meltdown.

It was not just that Oklahoma City could not make shot or run its offense. The Thunder fouled in the backcourt, and not just once or twice when the lead was still in double digits and seemingly safe, but in the final minute when they had become completely unglued.

Russell Westbrook missed a pair of free throws. Kevin Durant turned the ball over. With the Thunder down to its last chance to avoid overtime, they failed to get within 30 feet of the rim.

They are not coming back from that.

The question will soon be whether the collapse will take them off the path of their remarkable progress. It is easy to forget that they are the youngest team to get this far since the ¡¦86 Rockets, and the third-youngest team in the NBA this season. They are not far removed from that 3-29 start to the 2008-09 season.

They have improved incredibly rapidly and steadily, with plenty of room to grow as Durant learns all the ways to counter the defenses he is seeing, Westbrook learns to use his speed to set up buckets around him and James Harden and Serge Ibaka grow into their talent.

For now, however, they kept saying that they just missed shots.

¡§They made shots; we didn¡¦t,¡¨ Durant said.

¡§They were able to make some tough shots and we were not able to knock anything down towards the end of the game,¡¨ Westbrook said.

That was part of it, but down the stretch Dallas made just one or two really tough shots, and those were taken by the right guy, Dirk Nowitzki. Oklahoma City took just one or two shots that were not really tough shots.

The Thunder was not the first team to cough up a huge lead, as the championship Rockets or for that matter, this season¡¦s Mavericks know.

Those teams, however, were stocked with veterans. They handled the defeats and came back stronger. The Thunder collapse will not just be a test of their will on Wednesday, but whether they can continue to grow past the shortcomings that made it happen.

That could happen, but not in time for this season.

***

With the Rockets hitting the home stretch in their coaching decision, Mavericks assistant Dwane Casey is up for another job. Add Indiana to the list, along with the Warriors and Rockets.

If the Rockets offer Casey ¡V or Kevin McHale or Lawrence Frank, who are also candidates elsewhere ¡V their coaching position this week, it¡¦s a safe bet they¡¦d have their guy.

Until then, however, which open job is best?

We¡¦ll leave out the Lakers, since that is the obvious answer. We also won¡¦t include the Timberwolves, since Kurt Rambis is still left twisting in the wind and Casey and McHale can¡¦t be candidates there, anyway.

There is Indiana, with a solid nucleus of scorers, a talented young center and coming off a late-season turnaround to a playoff spot in the land of opportunity known as the Eastern Conference.

There is Golden State, with the Monta Ellis-Stephen Curry backcourt, a talented frontcourt rookie Ekpe Udoh and solid David Lee.

And there is Houston, with a high-scoring roster led by solid veterans Kevin Martin, Luis Scola and Kyle Lowry among 11 guys under contract with cap room.

The Rockets are the one team coming off a winning record, an indication that a new coach won¡¦t have to suffer through a brutal, 30-win first season of rebuilding. But Rick Adelman squeezed 43 wins out of that team and more will be expected.

So while the Rockets make their choice, what would be their finalists¡¦ choice ¡V Indiana, Golden State or Houston?


