For 48 minutes Monday night, the Dallas Mavericks never led.

In the five extra minutes of overtime when it counted most, they never trailed.

The Mavericks, who had mastered the art of losing big leads during the playoffs, overcame a 15-point fourth-quarter deficit, forced overtime, then played steely tough in the bonus frame to eke out a 112-105 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder on Monday night.

The Mavericks' frantic comeback was keyed by many players, including Jason Terry. As the final seconds ticked off, he smiled at the Mavericks' bench held up one finger and said: "One more, one more."

That's the number of wins they need to reach the NBA Finals.

Monday's show of force put the Mavericks in commanding position with a 3-1 lead in the best-of-seven Western Conference finals. They can earn the franchise's second trip to the NBA Finals on Wednesday night at American Airlines Center.

That they are in this position is because they scored a gritty victory in one of the most remarkable games in Mavericks' playoff history, overcoming a huge deficit in the game's final five minutes behind Dirk Nowitzki's 40 points and strong-willed play by Jason Kidd, Shawn Marion and Terry.

The Mavericks had to overcome many sins on this night, including terrible rebounding and what was very poor transition defense for three quarters.

But in the end, overcome those problems they did.

The Mavericks chipped away and rallied to within 99-91 with 3:14 to go. After yet another offensive rebound allowed Russell Westbrook to score, the Mavericks got a 3-pointer by Nowitzki, who had a hard-earned 40 points.

The Mavericks' defense rose up, stopping the Thunder on four consecutive possessions, helped along by a pair of missed Westbrook free throws.

When Nowitzki continued to drain midrange jumpers, and Marion made one of two free throws with 39.5 seconds left, the Mavericks were only down, 101-99.

Thabo Sefalosha missed from the corner, and the Mavericks got Nowitzki to the free throw line with 6.4 seconds left when Nick Collison grabbed his jersey on the pick and roll. Nowitzki hit both free throws to tie the score.

Marion made a terrific block on Durant to make sure the Thunder didn't steal the game on its last possession.

The Mavericks started overtime with two Nowitzki free throws, which gave them their first lead of the game, 103-101. Points were tough to come by and the score was 105-105 with 1:15 to go when Durant got stripped by Kidd, who once again had a do-everything night.

At the other end, Kidd pump-faked, then knocked in a 3-point shot from the right wing for a 108-105 advantage with 40.3 seconds left.

Westbrook missed for the Thunder, and Kidd rebounded. Terry hit two free throws with 17 seconds left, and Kidd added two more as the Mavericks danced off the court.

Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said before the game that each time a team has won in the Western Conference finals, it has responded by getting its respective tail shot off in the ensuing game. That trend looked like it would be a tough one to buck early.

The Mavericks figured they were going to have to weather a firestorm of OKC emotion, adrenaline and determination in the early going.

But they didn't plan on the Thunder hitting nine consecutive shots to open the game.

With Durant hitting five of them, the Thunder and the crowd were rolling. They busted out to a 12-point lead before the first quarter was done. The Thunder hit an astounding 28 field goals in the first half.

To put that in perspective, they only had 27 baskets in all 48 minutes of Game 3.

But the Mavericks used some snappy offensive execution of their own to never fall out of sight. They kept chipping away and were only down, 59-54, at halftime. They actually seemed like they had the momentum when the second half opened, which makes sense given that they were 3-0 at Oklahoma City Arena this season before Monday.

"We're in a building that's extremely difficult to play in," Carlisle said. "It's one of the best basketball atmospheres that there is."

There's no question about that.

"And we're playing against a team that has gained a lot of experience in a short period of time. And they're going to have basketball wisdom beyond their years because of what they've been through in these playoffs."

