Shawn Marion finished Game 4 with four rebounds, 4 steals, and a block on the defensive end. In the final six minutes of play counting overtime, Marion had 2 rebounds, 2 steals, and a block. Nearly half of his impact came during the Mavericks' furious comeback to win Game 4 and take a 3-1 series lead. Lost in the Thunder collapse, Dirk Nowitzki's brilliance, Jason Kidd's ice-cold dagger and did we mention Dirk was awesome? Those two steals and that block?

They were all on Kevin Durant.

Everything was set for Durant to step up and be the hero for the Thunder. He'd been aggressive since the start, complimenting his perimeter game with slashes to the rim and no-regard dunks. The Thunder needed him with the offense completely unraveling, and all he had to do was get by a 33-year-old player best known for his time on a no-defense high-octane offense in the mid-00's but who had been a pest in these Western Conference Finals.

But Marion attacked. He attacked his dribble, forcing Durant to pull up, then reaching in and ripping the ball away from Durant, and he attacked his shot, constantly contesting Durant's three-pointers and blocking his would-be game winner.  Marion challenged the young scoring champ and in the biggest moment of his career... Durant failed. 

This isn't to pile on Durant, who was clearly devastated, is a phenomenal player, and has the brightest future imaginable ahead of him. It's to maintain consistency. Were this LeBron James or Kobe Bryant or Derrick Rose, we would be obligated to point out the obvious: Durant failed at being the go-to player when his team needed him most.  It's one thing for your shot to be off, that's going to happen. All you can do is focus on the fact you got the best look possible and move on. But Durant didn't do that. He opted for off-balance fadeaways 3-pointers, including a 40-foot pull-up with three more seconds left on the clock. 

There's no Russell Westbrook to blame here. Kevin Durant wanted the ball, he got it. He didn't deliver.

Meanwhile, it was the veteran Marion, once again getting none of the credit, doing nearly all of the work, and shutting down the heir apparent. Nothing will be given Kevin Durant. If he wants to be the next NBA legend, he's going to have to take his legacy in his own hands. On Monday night, he fumbled it into the gutter along with the rest of the Thunder team. 

