Dirk Nowitzki scored 40 points, Jason Kidd hit the go-ahead three-pointer with 40 seconds left in overtime and the Mavericks overcame a 15-point deficit in the final five minutes of regulation to stun the host Thunder 112-105 on Monday night and take a 3-1 lead in the Western Conference finals.

Dallas didn't lead until Nowitzki hit a free-throw try 16 seconds into overtime, needing to rally from a 99-84 deficit. The Mavericks did not let the Thunder - who were one win shy of tying an NBA record with eight OT victories in the regular season - go ahead in the extra period.

Kevin Durant missed a three-point try on Oklahoma City's opening possession of overtime, then didn't get another shot until he missed a three off the front rim in the final 10 seconds with the Thunder down by five.

Durant finished with 29 points and 15 rebounds, and Serge Ibaka had 18 points and 10 boards for Oklahoma City. Russell Westbrook added 19 points, eight rebounds and eight assists.

"We worked really hard these two games to win, and none of that guarantees anything for Game 5. We know that," Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. "We understand our position. ... We respect it. We're very humble about it.

"There's no doubt it was a tough loss," Oklahoma City coach Scott Brooks said. "If this loss did not hurt, there's no such thing as a loss that can hurt you."

Briefly: Bulls center Joakim Noah was fined $50,000 for yelling an anti-gay slur at a fan during Sunday's loss to the Heat. The fine is half of what the Lakers' Kobe Bryant was assessed for shouting the same slur toward a referee last month. The discrepancy was because "Kobe's fine included discipline for verbal abuse of a game official," NBA spokesman Mark Broussard said. Noah apologized, saying he would "learn from my mistakes." ... The Trail Blazers dismissed general manager Rich Cho after less than a year on the job. Blazers President Larry Miller said, "The chemistry just wasn't there."

Read more: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/05/23/SP931JJSEC.DTL#ixzz1O59H3lnB


