OKLAHOMA CITY ¡X The Dallas Mavericks are on a mission to return to the N.B.A. finals, and their resolve cannot be questioned after a scintillating late rally Monday night. 

The Mavericks went on a 17-2 run with a little less than five minutes remaining in regulation to force overtime, and in the extra session, Jason Kidd¡¦s 3-pointer was the decisive blow in a 112-105 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder. The victory gave Dallas a 3-1 series lead in the Western Conference finals.

Dallas again proved its prowess on the road, winning for the fifth time in seven such playoff games. The Mavericks can clinch the series on Wednesday night at home.

¡§One thing about this team all year, they¡¦ve been a resourceful group, they keep believing, and we¡¦ve been extremely opportunistic,¡¨ Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle said. ¡§The way they hung in tonight was fantastic.¡¨

When Kevin Durant (29 points) drilled a 3-pointer for a 99-84 lead with 5 minutes 6 seconds to play, it appeared the Thunder was ready to even the series. But Dirk Nowitzki (40 points) hit two free throws with 6.4 seconds remaining to force overtime at 101-101.

As the Mavericks frantically chipped away at the 15-point deficit, their veteran instincts took control and threw the young Thunder into collapse. ¡§I don't think we called a play,¡¨ Nowitzki said. ¡§We picked-and-rolled it, free-flowed it. When our defense is good like it was down the stretch, it sets us up offensively.¡¨

Carlisle said, ¡§What happened in the last five minutes was all about defense.¡¨

Nowitzki¡¦s jumper with two minutes left cut the Thunder¡¦s lead to 101-96 and brought nervous chants of ¡§OKC! OKC!¡¨ from the capacity crowd at Oklahoma City Arena. Nowitzki hushed fans moments later when he followed with a fadeaway to make it 101-98. With 39.5 seconds to play, Shawn Marion made one of two free throw attempts to cut the deficit to 101-99.

The Mavericks pulled to 61-59 early in the third quarter, but Nick Collison¡¦s fast-break dunk completed a 13-6 run as the Thunder regained momentum.

Still, Oklahoma City could not shake free. Jason Terry (20 points) hit a 3-pointer, and after a Thunder turnover, Brendan Haywood scored off a rebound to make it 79-77.

But Durant made two free throws to keep Oklahoma City ahead by 4 points heading into the final quarter.

¡§No question this is a very difficult loss, but you have to take it like a man and move on,¡¨ Thunder Coach Scott Brooks said. ¡§It was a tough loss for our franchise, every player, every coach and our fans. But you have to move on. We have to focus on one game and win one game.¡¨

Brooks added: ¡§We struggled down the stretch with execution and turnovers. It was hard to overcome. We did everything we could to win against a very good Dallas team.¡¨

With the prospect of a two-game Dallas lead at stake, both teams turned to their superstars in the first half. The Thunder emerged with a 59-54 halftime lead.

Durant is not known for a scowl, but his angry mood energized the Thunder as it made amends for its flat Game 3 start. Durant scored 14 points in the first half, 10 in the first quarter. Russell Westbrook helped with 12 points, and Serge Ibaka responded with 8 points as Oklahoma City hit Dallas hard early and shot 58 percent in the half.

The Mavericks rallied behind Nowitzki, who had 22 points by halftime, hitting for 17 in the second quarter. It was a marked improvement on his 7-for-21 shooting in Game 3.

Dallas got scoring balance came from Kidd (17 points), Terry and Haywood, who added 7 points apiece.

The Thunder offense flows through Durant, and the Mavericks had slowly choked off his efficiency. Durant, the scoring champion the last two seasons, averaged 29.3 points through three games, but his shooting had plummeted from 55 percent to 47.8 percent to 31.8 percent.

Marion and Kidd usually worked in shifts to hound him, but Durant had vowed to come out more aggressive after shooting 7 of 22 in Game 3, and he quickly delivered.

With Marion chasing him, Durant drilled his first four jump shots before picking up a loose ball and tearing between two defenders for a dunk and an 18-8 lead. Dallas had already tried to quell the run with two quick timeouts.

The Thunder followed Durant¡¦s lead, hitting its first nine shots and building a 12-point advantage. Oklahoma City was still scorching midway through the second quarter at 66.7 percent, but as Nowitzki heated up, the Mavericks twice clawed to 3 points behind before trailing by 5 at halftime.

¡§I wouldn¡¦t say they have had our number; every game could have gone either way,¡¨ the Thunder¡¦s Brooks said when asked before tip-off about the Mavericks¡¦ defensive intensity.

On Monday night, the Mavericks did have the Thunder¡¦s number.

¡§It¡¦s not over,¡¨ Durant said. 