The Oklahoma City Thunder have to win on Wednesday night in Dallas or their season will be over with. In one of the most exciting series in the 2011 NBA Playoffs, Oklahoma City blew a big 15-point lead at the end of Game 4 to drop to a 1-3 deficit and have to find a way to turn things around or their great season will end in disappointment.

As game time grows near, there are a number of areas that Oklahoma City need to be aware of if they want to see a Game 6 in Oklahoma City.

In Game 1, Kevin Durant scored 40 points in the Oklahoma City loss. It should have been enough to win but Dirk Nowitzki(notes) exploded for 48 points while breaking the single game postseason record for consecutive free throws without a miss. However, in the next three postseason games against Dallas, Durant averaged 25 points a game while only hitting 27-of-67 over that period of time.

When the star of your team, especially the NBA scoring leader, only averages 40-percent from the floor, you can't win. Kevin Durant needs to play like he did in the Memphis series when his lowest output was 31 points. When the series was on the line, and Oklahoma City had to win in Game 7 of the Memphis series, Durant scored 39 while hitting 52-percent from the floor. That is that Kevin Durant that Oklahoma City needs in Game 5 of the Dallas series.

The bench needs play strong

The numbers don't lie. In the games Oklahoma City won in the playoffs this year, the bench averaged almost 40 points a game. In all the losses, the bench averaged in the low 20s. James Harden(notes) has to step it up and play strong in Game 5 against Dallas. However, it isn't just about Harden. Nick Collison(notes) has to play strong, especially when defending Dirk Nowitzki and Nazr Mohammad needs to get in there to work alongside Kendrick Perkins(notes) to protect the big man from fouling out.

But for the Thunder to win, they need a high scoring output from everyone on their bench. Russell Westbrook(notes) and James Harden need to get everyone involved in this scoring. Eric Maynor(notes) and Daequan Cook(notes) need to get in their shots if, for no other reason, then to take pressure off Durant and Westbrook. With these players involved, the Thunder can reclaim their dominance at the 3 to put the needed pressure on Dallas.

Russell Westbrook needs to avoid playing the hero

The one Oklahoma City Thunder player who has received the brunt of the fan abuse is point guard Russell Westbrook. Westbrook has often taken it upon himself to try to play the hero when Oklahoma City fell behind. Westbrook is a star but, for Oklahoma City to win in Game 5, he needs to be the triple-double star he was in Game 7 of the Memphis series. He has to dish out big assists to his supporting players in order for Oklahoma City to have a chance. When the pressure is on Westbrook, he wilts like a flower, and he needs to trust his teammates. It is the only way the series will stretch past Wednesday night in order to return to Oklahoma City.