All season long I've been downplaying the importance of regular season results and suggesting that even though the Miami Heat lost the season series to the Chicago Bulls, they dominated stretches of those games in a way that made it seem like the Heat would crush the Bulls in a seven-game format.

Admittedly, after game one, I'm not as confident.

Now, I'm not ready to push the panic button just yet. I saw the Miami Heat get blown out by the Richard Jefferson(notes)-Jason Kidd-Vince Carter(notes) New Jersey Nets in the regular season in 2006, lose the opener of that postseason series in a similarly disheartening fashion and then go on to win the next four games of that series convincingly.

The problems? This Bulls team is far better than that Nets team and there were some structural problems with the Heat's approach to Game 1.

Below you will find my top 5 reasons for the Heat's defeat:

5. Poor Clock Management

It doesn't say much about the team's faith in its half-court sets when the moment Miami goes down by more than 5 points, LeBron James(notes) starts holding the ball for 10 to 15 seconds above the break. It's not just that it contributes to the Heat's dependance on isolation play, but it puts whoever gets ball should LeBron not shoot in a precarious situation with little time on the clock to react.

It's also counterintuitive to hold the ball for the entire shot clock for so many possessions in a row when you're down by double digits.

4. Lack of Ball Movement

I realize that the Bulls and Heat are built differently and that they rely on isolation plays because they have more talented and athletic players, but the Heat play their best basketball when they move the ball and get James Jones(notes), Mike Miller(notes), Mike Bibby(notes) and Mario Chalmers(notes) open threes and Chris Bosh(notes) 15 foot jumpers.

It can be hard to reconcile flowing ball movement with two players dominating the shot attempts, but the Heat demonstrated it's possible against the Boston Celtics in the second round.

3. Passive Play from Wade and LeBron

LeBron James and Dwyane Wade(notes) took only thirteen shots in the second half and neither of them scored 20 points. We can give the Bulls' defense all the credit in the world for clogging the paint and playing tough one-on-one defense, but that's just not nearly enough attempts coming from superstars who are regularly responsible for 60 to 70 percent of the team's offense.

Simply put, there is no defense that can stop two players that are that gifted. The Miami Heat should never lose by more than 10 points. If they do, chances are that they are being too passive offensively and defensively.

2. Defense

Miami played tough defense in the first half, but once the Bulls took control of the game in the third quarter, they were just a few steps late closing out on shooters or not boxing out aggressively. When the Heat play Joel Anthony(notes) and Mario Chalmers they are as good defensively as any lineup the Chicago Bulls can put together. The Bulls are offensively challenged to begin with, but that is no excuse to let them shoot wide open shots and not box out.

1 . Rebounding

Clearly, the Chicago Bulls are a top rebounding team in the NBA while the Heat are one of the worst, but the success of the Boston Celtics' Big Three demonstrated that a weak rebounding team can win in this league.

That said, giving away half of your defensive rebounds is not simply weakness on the glass, it's an insurmountable disaster. The Heat cannot win if they are donating that many second chance opportunities.

Wade and LeBron need to cheat less on the wings and attack the boards. Wade has been averaging about 7 boards and LeBron about 10 during the playoffs. They are going to need every single one of those rebounds to compete. Finally, the Heat need to make a concerted effort to box out Joakim Noah(notes). I would say Joel Anthony's main purpose in this series, rather than his usual shot blocking and rebounding, should be to keep Joakim Noah as far from the basket as possible.

Once the Heat start boxing out and playing Miami Heat defense, this series will become the brawl we all expected.