OKLAHOMA CITY ¡X Moments after their seven-game battle ended, Memphis' Shane Battier embraced Kevin Durant, Oklahoma City's gifted young star, and advised him to take advantage of his opportunity with no assumption it will come again.

There was no such message when the Dallas Mavericks finished off the Los Angeles Lakers days earlier. Kobe Bryant did not whisper sage counsel to Jason Kidd, and Pau Gasol did not share the wisdom of experience with Dirk Nowitzki.

The Dallas players carry the scars of those lessons through every practice and every game. They are driven by the experiences that no amount of veteran advice can replace and that have pushed the team within a victory of eliminating the Thunder and returning to the NBA Finals for the first time since 2006.

"This is why we play the game," said Kidd, who along with Nowitzki helped the Mavericks to a 112-105 overtime victory in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals Monday night. "If you're lucky enough to play a long time and have a chance to win a championship, this is why you play: to try to win. There's so many good guys in this league, there's no guarantee you're going to win.

"We feel there's no better chance than now. We're playing pretty good basketball. We're in the moment. We're trying to focus on understanding the opportunity we have right now."

That veteran focus, and the difference in the best-of-seven series, was never clearer than in the final five minutes Monday night when Dallas faced a 15-point deficit and never was more poised or determined.

The Mavericks had suffered through similar crashes - from the 13-point lead lost in Game 3 of the 2006 NBA Finals against Miami to the 23-point lead overcome by Brandon Roy and Portland in the first round this season.
Past lessons learned

Dallas went from a 2-0 lead in those series to losing the next four games. It went through the one-and-done playoff seasons and the slurs that went with them. But as the Mavericks swept the Lakers and took a 3-1 lead against Oklahoma City, the players appeared hardened by the struggles.

"They're definitely beneficial," center Tyson Chandler said. "There are guys who have been here before and have been in this same situation and didn't make it.

"I think that history right now for us is pushing guys. It's pushing a guy like Jason Kidd, who is looking like one of the youngest guys on the floor because he understands this can all be done for him this year."

Dallas' only championship ring belongs to coach Rick Carlisle, who won his as a player with the Celtics. As a coach, he has twice before advanced to the conference finals but no further. Even the Thunder, with the youngest roster in the conference finals since the Rockets in 1986, have two players with titles on their resumes - Nazr Mohammed (San Antonio, 2005) and Kendrick Perkins (Boston, 2009).

"Peja Stojakovic, Sacramento versus L.A., he didn't get it done," guard Jason Terry said. "Myself and Dirk, Finals 2-0, didn't get it done. Coach Carlisle, two Eastern Conference finals, never made it to the championship. Jason Kidd, two Finals appearances, didn't hoist up the trophy. Shawn Marion has been to the Western Conference finals twice, hasn't got to the Finals.

"Those unique stories are what drive us and motivate us to get it done this year."
Next year never a given

Most of those previous opportunities were expected to be the first of many, as is this one for the Thunder. But as Battier warned Durant and the Mavericks know better than most teams, the instances can be all too rare, too special to be assumed.

"You understand that those chances don't come as often as you'd like," Stojakovic said. "When you're younger, you have a different approach. You always think that there's the next year, but those kinds of opportunities don't come often. We thought, 'Next year, we are going to be even better.' It never happened again for us.

"You understand how important the situation is. It's a great, great opportunity for all of us."

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/sports/bk/bkn/7580062.html#ixzz1O5a4yWVX


