The celebration was short-lived and had a matter-of-fact tone to it.

There were lots of hugs, lots of smiles, a whole lot of hand-shaking, and no confetti. No one had to tell the Dallas Mavericks twice that what they were able to produce Wednesday night at American Airlines Center was a special accomplishment.

But the Mavericks - who advanced to the NBA Finals with a hard-fought 100-96 victory over Oklahoma City - chose to be nonchalant about it all. That's because the Mavericks say they have another obstacle to overcome.

No parades are being planned at the moment. At least none that the media are aware of such as the one former Dallas Mayor Laura Miller inexplicably publicly revealed was in the works after the Mavs took a 2-0 lead over Miami in the 2006 NBA Finals.

Other than receiving the Western Conference championship trophy in the aftermath of a rugged Game 5 win over the Thunder, the Mavericks didn't flex any muscles, didn't show any signs of bravado.

And when talkative owner Mark Cuban was asked why he's been so remarkably quiet during the playoffs, he responded with: "It doesn't matter. All I can say is there's 20,000 people in this building who believed in us. And nobody else did.

"All I can tell everybody is we ain't done yet."

Fans then started chanting "Beat The Heat!, Beat The Heat!, Beat The Heat!"

The Mavericks then calmly walked off the court while high-fiving those nearby as they prepare to play in the Finals for the second time in six seasons.

As they await the winner of the Miami-Chicago series in the Eastern Conference Finals - the Heat lead 3-1 - the Mavericks believe their season isn't validated until they're hoisting the NBA championship trophy high above their collective heads.

"This is what our season has been about. It's about advancing," Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. "It's exciting. We're very grounded. We'll enjoy it for a day. We have a lot of work left to do."

The Mavericks got rid of that speed bump known as the Thunder with some prime-time execution in the waning minutes that was reminiscent of Game 4. Dallas, which won this series 4-1, outscored Oklahoma City 17-6 over the final 5:28 after falling behind 90-83.

In Monday's Game 4, the Mavs sent the game into overtime after a magnificent 17-2 run over the final 5:06 of regulation and won 112-105.

Big plays were plentiful in the final, frantic minutes. But the biggest of them all came when OKC guard Eric Maynor missed on a shot on a drive to the basket, and it later ended up in Shawn Marion's hands.

Marion drove hard to the basket, dunked it, was fouled by Kevin Durant and completed the three-point play that inched the Mavs ahead 98-94 with 49.4 seconds remaining.

Russell Westbrook (31 points, eight rebounds) then made two free throws as OKC closed to within 98-96 with 39 seconds left.

The Mavs ended it when Jason Kidd rebounded a missed jumper by Dirk Nowitzki, and Nowitzki nailed a pair of free throws with 13.3 seconds left. OKC's last chance ended when Durant and James Harden each misfired on 3-point attempts.

Nowitzki (26 points, nine rebounds) and Marion (26 points, eight rebounds, three blocks) were the main contributors for the Mavs. Also, J.J. Barea collected 14 points and five assists, and Jason Terry added 12 points.

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/26/2904689/mavericks-ready-to-get-down-to.html#ixzz1O5EWpCkD


