Five years, time that neither Dirk Nowitzki nor Jason Terry can ever get back.

Five long years it's taken for them to get back to the NBA Finals.

The opportunity to avenge that fruitless trip in 2006 came only after an industrial-strength effort to close out the Oklahoma City Thunder on Wednesday night.

The Mavericks are headed back to the NBA's promised land after Shawn Marion and Dirk Nowitzki escorted them with a frantic fourth-quarter rally that ended with a 100-96 victory in Game 5 of the Western Conference finals at American Airlines Center.

The 4-1 series win sends the Mavericks to their second NBA Finals in franchise history.

Amid chants of "Beat the Heat," who have yet to close out Chicago in the Eastern Conference finals, the Mavericks gathered at center court after a 17-6 closing rally in the final 5:28 for a jubilant, but subdued, celebration as owner Mark Cuban received the Western Conference championship trophy.

"We ain't finished yet," Cuban said.

And yet, they were almost pushed to a Game 6 by the Thunder.

The Mavericks were down by eight with eight minutes left and still were looking at a 92-86 deficit before Nowitzki and Marion each hit a couple of free throws.

The Thunder were trying to hang on and got a nice flip shot from Kevin Durant before both sides misfired, with Jason Terry heaving two missed jumpers and the Thunder failing to get a shot other than a terrible 3-pointer by Eric Maynor.

After an exchange of baskets, the Mavericks got an offensive rebound as Tyson Chandler battled for a rebound that went out to Nowitzki, who hit a 3-pointer with 1:14 to go to put the Mavericks ahead 95-94.The Thunder couldn't couldn't score and Marion got loose behind the Thunder defense for a dunk and a three-point play that made it 98-94 with 48.9 seconds left.

Maynor missed a 3-pointer and the Mavericks regained control when Nick Collison, who had a terrific game off the Thunder's bench, threw away the rebound as he was falling out of bounds.

The Mavericks were gritty tough down the stretch.

The Thunder, who carved their way to the basket all night, couldn't finish the deal at the end.

The Mavericks and Thunder were jockeying for position throughout the first half, which ended with Oklahoma City clinging to a 55-52 lead.

The Mavericks had played decent defense at times, such as limiting Durant to one point in the second quarter, when he got just one shot in 7 minutes, 51 seconds of court time. Westbrook and Harden, meanwhile, combined for 12 shots and 16 points in the period as the Thunder held the lead most of the way.

In total, the Thunder's big three had 42 of the team's 55 points by halftime.

The Mavericks were spreading their wealth around a bit better, and they got a huge boost off the bench from J.J. Barea, who had 11 points in 11 minutes by halftime.

And still, they barely kept pace with the Thunder.

When both teams took the court for the third quarter, it was like a rugby game broke out. The physicality was upgraded and the whistles were downgraded. Only obvious fouls were called.

Of course, one of those was on Tyson Chandler, who picked up his fourth qith 6:31 left in the third quarter, taking him out of the game for the rest of the period.

Neither side was able to find the basket. The Mavericks missed six of their first nine shots after halftime and the Thunder was worse at 1-of-9.

Eventually, the whistles loosened up, but the points still were much tougher to come by than they had been in a rather fertile first half for both sides.

Through it all, the Mavericks defense couldn't get a handle on Westbrook, who darted through lanes in the gut of the Mavericks' defenders for a slew of layups and short runners.

That forced the Mavericks to back off of him just enough to open up some mid-range jumpers, such as the 16-footer Westbrook hit with 9:14 left that put the Thunder ahead 85-77, matching their biggest lead of the game.

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/26/2904512/nowitzki-and-marion-lead-mavericks.html#ixzz1O5EfGmAq


