DALLAS -- The record books will show that the Dallas Mavericks knocked out the Oklahoma City Thunder in five games. It will appear as if the series was lopsided.

However, it was not. And the Thunder played good enough Wednesday night to earn a victory in Game 5 of the Western Conference Finals. But for the second consecutive game, Dirk Nowitzki drained some back-breaking shots and Oklahoma City was left scratching their heads after a 100-96 loss at American Airlines Center.

Nowitzki, who has been on a mission to return to the Finals ever since the 2006 Mavs lost to the Miami Heat in 6 games, nailed the biggest bucket of the game with Dallas down 94-92 and 1:14 left on the clock.

The seven-footer missed a wide-open three near the top of the key, seven seconds before getting another opportunity at a similar shot.

A Jason Terry steal quickly turned into a pass that went from Jason Kidd to Shawn Marion and back to Nowitzki, who was waiting up top for a second try.

The shot looked good from the release and by the time it found the bottom of the net, the 21,092 in attendance had their hands in the air while making the building as loud as it's been during this playoff run.

"I was so wide-open and missed that three and I said if I get any daylight on the next look, I'm going to let it go again," Nowitzki recalled. "And we were able to get our hands on the ball and tip it out and got a good look there and was able to make it, so that was definitely a big shot.

"For this team, I've got to keep attacking and keep being aggressive."

With his team trailing for the first time since the last few minutes of the third quarter, Thunder coach Scott Brooks immediately called timeout. Oklahoma City was deflated and the Mavericks were ahead for good.

"I knew it was good," Terry recalled of Nowitzki's three. "I knew it was good. You can't give a shooter like him or myself, [Peja] Stojakovic or [Kidd], two shots on the same possession. It just don't work like that. Percentages say he's going to make that nine times out of 10."

If Nowitzki, who finished with 26 points and 9 rebounds, wasn't so great at ripping out a team's heart late in games, the Thunder could be ahead in this series 3-2. Instead, the Mavericks advance to the NBA Finals for the first times since 2006. 

