The Miami Heat star then returned to mere mortal status. He'll need more if the Heat are to overcome the team play of the Chicago Bulls.

Led by 28 points from Derrick Rose and 28 from the bench, the Bulls beat the Heat 103-82 on Sunday to win the opener of the Eastern Conference finals. Game 2 is here Wednesday.

The teams were tied at halftime, but the Bulls took control with a 10-0 run midway through the third quarter for a lead then never surrendered.

Their defense was spectacular. They held Miami's Big 3 to 63 points, almost six below their playoff average. James ended with 15 points (5-for-15 shooting), Dwyane Wade had 18 and Chris Bosh got 30, his playoff high this season.

    BOX SCORE: Bulls 103, Heat 82
    PHOTO GALLERY: Top images from the NBA playoffs
    SCHEDULE: Complete matchups, dates and results

"Our defense just stayed consistent," said Chicago's Luol Deng, who defended James and still scored 21 points. James "just had an off night."

But the Bulls, the overall No. 1 seed and with the NBA's top defense, just proved too strong. After being outrebounded in the first quarter, the Bulls dominated the boards, finishing with a 45-33 rebounding edge.

"We took it on the chin," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "Second-chance points was a big factor ¡K and offensively we got away from things we normally do."

Deng was a force, hitting four three-pointers and adding seven rebounds, four steals and a block.

"We won 62 games. We know we're a good team," he said.

    HEAT: Rebounding troubles begin
    BULLS: Dominant on boards

As the final minutes ticked away, fans chanted "Over-rated!" and "Beat the Heat!"

Game 2 is Wednesday night in Chicago, and they'd be just fine with another performance like this.

Rose settled down after committing three of his four turnovers in the opening minutes and showed why he is the MVP. He hit three three-pointers and the Bulls converted 10 of 21 in all.

As for his apology?

"It was on me," Rose said. "Careless turnovers. You can't do that against this team. When they get into the open court, they're too dangerous. ... I'm the point guard. I've got to do way better."

He did just that after the early hiccup, particularly in the second half and hit some big shots down the stretch. Even so, this was no solo act.

Deng hit four threes, had four steals, seven rebounds and simply put the clamps on The King.

"Definitely to guard a guy like that the whole defense has to stay focused," Deng said. "There were times we switched and times we forced him into the double. Our bigs were great at forcing him into the front."

Carlos Boozer (FSY) added 14 points and nine rebounds. Joakim Noah (FSY) had 14 rebounds and the Bulls pounded the Heat on the glass, 45-33, grabbing 19 on the offensive end while outscoring them 31-8 on second-chance points.

"You play defense. You play defense hard and the shot goes up and they get an offensive rebound, kick it out for a three or get a layup or a dunk," James said. "Those are demoralizing for a defensive team. We've got to figure out a way to clean that up."

"Dwyane and LeBron are going to create a lot of attention," Bosh said. "This is a good defensive team. ... They're going to make them distributors. We have to look at where we fell short as a team for Game 1 and come back with a better approach."

The Heat were leading 58-57 midway through the third when the Bulls made their move, reeling off 10 in a row to seize the momentum.

Rose and Bogans started it by nailing three-pointers. A steal by Bogans against Wade led to two free throws by Rose after he got knocked to the floor going for a fast-break layup.

Then, after a timeout, Noah blocked a layup by Wade and scored seconds later on a layup off an inbounds along the Bulls' baseline, making it 67-58.

The Heat's James Jones (FSY) ended the run with a 3, but the Bulls simply weren't about to be stopped.

When Deng hit a three with 1:15 left to make it 72-63 with 1:15 remaining, the crowd jumped to its feet and let out a roar. More important, that started a 14-3 run that stretched into the fourth and put this one away.

Whether it was Boozer feeding Omer Asik (FSY) for a dunk early in the fourth or Deng racing in to put back his own missed jumper after a three by James, there was plenty for the Chicago fans to cheer during that stretch. They were loving it when Ronnie Brewer (FSY) stole a pass from Mario Chalmers (FSY) and hit two free throws, then dunked to make it 80-66. And when C.J. Watson (FSY) buried a three to put the lead at 17, they just about came unglued.

For at least some Chicago fans, beating Miami to get to the NBA Finals would be sweet redemption after what happened during the summer.

With enough salary-cap room for a pair of stars, the Bulls went after James, Wade and Bosh in the summer, hoping to land some combination of the two.

You know the rest of that story.

"We felt like we could compete against anybody," Noah said. "This is just a really exciting situation right now. The position that we're in is unbelievable. We feel like we're not satisfied, have a long way to go. Nobody believed that we could be in this position right now. We're not worried about the praise. We're not worried about the criticism. We're just focused on what we need to do, and we believe in each other."

"We took it on the chin tonight," coach Erik Spoelstra said.