Plenty of jarring statistics filled the Game 1 box score. This one certainly qualifies: LeBron James and Dwyane Wade attempted just eight free throws.

The two All-Stars had averaged a combined 19 free throws in the Heat's previous 10 playoff games. The Bulls' ability to defend without fouling played a huge factor in their success.

"It was the nature of the game," Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said. "Early on, we turned the ball over and put them in the open floor. In the second half, we only had one turnover, so we were able to get back and get set. If we can keep enough people in the lane, there's not a lot of room. If they generate a lot of speed and the defense is spread out, that's when they tend to get fouls. We're trying to limit those situations."

Minutes man: Once a regular topic during the regular season, Luol Deng's marathon performances are the norm now because the playoffs don't feature back-to-back games. Still, Deng's ironman performance of 44 minutes, 47 seconds in Game 1 ¡X and the level at which he played ¡X stood out.

Deng, who played all but 59 seconds in the first half, ranked third in minutes played and fourth in average minutes per game during the regular season.

"It was never an issue," Deng said. "I feel if I'm tired I would tell Coach or he would see it in the way I play. But it hasn't really affected me. I mean, I was playing these minutes in a back-to-back or four-in-five-nights (in the regular season). Now there are days off in between, which is really helping me."

Game on: Thibodeau surely would have smiled had he heard former Bull and current TNT analyst Steve Kerr offer words of warning for Wednesday's Game 2. And as the owner of five NBA championship rings, three with the Bulls, Kerr's words hold merit.

"You have two days off," Kerr said. "You're going to hear how great you are the whole time. Everybody is going to be beating up Miami. You got the whole Heat team, LeBron and Wade, just stewing in their hotel rooms the next couple of days. They're going to come out on fire on Wednesday night.

"The Bulls have to be ready emotionally. They can't be happy just getting that opening win. They have to be ready for a barrage. They have to understand each game is its own entity in the playoffs. Nothing will carry over."

Layups: Derrick Rose and Thibodeau held their usual post-practice video session on the sideline. Rose's three first-quarter turnovers on Sunday night still burned him. "I saw what I did with my mistakes," Rose said. "It shouldn't happen again." ... Game 1 marked only the third time in the last 40 seasons that a team won a conference finals or NBA Finals game by more than 20 points after being tied or trailing at halftime.