The Chicago Bulls and the Miami Heat will meet Wednesday in game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals. Both teams are under pressure in the game.

The 2011 Eastern Conference finals continue on Tuesday night as the Chicago Bulls and the Miami Heat meet in game 2 of their series.

The Bulls won game one in less than dramatic style as they drubbed the heat by 21 points to take the series lead. 

Miami actually held the lead for most of the first quarter and actually looked like the better team as they once held a near double digit lead. But Chicago answered back in the second quarter and by the end of the first half, the two teams went into the locker-room tied at 48 but with the Bulls holding momentum.

Chicago earned the lead in the third but not with offensive efficiency as they only made one third of their shots but with stellar offensive rebounding and short-range putbacks. 

Miami showed just a little life in the early fourth but did not cut the Bull lead down to less than eight as the Bulls put the pedal to the metal for the 103-82 victory. 

Leading scorers were Chris Bosh as he led the Heat with a game-high 30 points and Derrick Rose as he led Chicago with 28.

Perhaps the result of game one should not be considered surprising as the Bulls have been an excellent home team for most of the season. Also, on head-to-heads the Bulls were clearly the better team entering the series.

The Heat and Bulls met three times this regular season with Chicago sweeping the season series, 3-0. With the win in game one Chicago are really starting to look as though they have Miami's number as the Heat are now 0-4 against the Bulls, regular season and post-season combined.

But Miami, with a win in game two, can still claim a split in the first two games and that is all most NBA coaches hope for. Given how poorly they've done against Chicago this season, they NEED that split to get a degree of confidence heading to Miami for game three.

Game two will be played on Wednesday from Chicago once again as the Bulls look for a 2-0 lead in the series. Game time is at 8:30pm ET with TNT providing the television coverage.
