CHICAGO | Dwyane Wade is a basketball "superstar," a label we throw around these days like popcorn at pigeons, but it's still true in his case.

D-Wade is one of the NBA's top five players, but against the Bulls, he must feel like the soup kitchen just closed and he's still shivering out in the cold.

Wade has had a tough time beating the team he grew up loving as a child.

Wednesday night's 85-75 win in Game 2 of the highly-entertaining Eastern Conference Finals definitely made the flight back to Miami enjoyable.

"A great collective performance of aggressiveness and endurance by our guys," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "The fourth quarter probably will epitomize this series. I mean, 14-10 ... this will be an absolute street fight."

The Heat evened the best-of-seven series at 1-1. Game 3 will be 7:30 p.m. Sunday in Miami.

Wade finished with 24 points, LeBron James 29 and Udonis Haslem had 13. Derrick Rose led the Bulls, who shot 34 percent, with 21 points and Luol Deng added 13. No one else reached double figures.

It was 71-65 Heat after three quarters as reserve Haslem provided much needed support for Wade and James with nine of his 11 points coming in that period.

"I've been through a lot of battles with that warrior," Spoelstra said. "I could see it in his eyes it was time to plug him in when we got into early foul trouble."

Prior to Wednesday and including postseason, Wade was 18-19 against the Bulls when in the lineup. He had lost 10 of his last 12 games in Chicago since Miami won the title in 2006.

Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau certainly came away impressed.

"Haslem is a terrific player. You can't measure him statistically but he brings a lot of toughness and high energy to their team," Thibodeau said.

"He did a great job, as did their whole team. They had a lot of fight to them."

Spoelstra didn't want two off days after Sunday's 103-82 debacle but had no choice when Oprah took over the United Center for her TV farewell show.

"It was a nightmare," Spoelstra said, reflecting on Game 1. "Two days in between after a performance like that is a long time. We all wanted to get after it (Tuesday). That's probably the reason we had such a physical practice."

Unlike the previous four meetings, this time the Bulls were outrebounded 45-41, with James grabbing a game-high 10.
