Maybe the Bulls sucker-punched an unsuspecting LeBron James and his Miami Heat in Game 1. Maybe the King and his courtmates believed the hype and failed to see how suffocating the Bulls・ defense can be.

Everybody knows that・s not going to happen again in Game 2 tonight.

``We understand it・s going to be a dogfight,・・ Bulls forward Taj Gibson said. ``We understand it・s going to come down to [intensity]. We・re focused on going into battle.・・

Everybody knows what・s at stake. If the Bulls can go up 2-0, they can go to Miami for Games 3 and 4 with an eye toward stealing one, but knowing they still have home-court advantage in their hip pocket.

If they let the Heat snatch a win in the United Center tonight, all that impressive stuff the Bulls did in Game 1 won・t mean much. If the Bulls don・t protect home court again tonight, ``it changes everything,・・ Luol Deng said.

That would give Miami the home-court edge, and put the Bulls in a position where they need to win on the road. It also would give the Heat, which had its pride hurt in Game 1, the momentum.

That・s why the Bulls are expecting to see a desperate Heat team tonight. And if the Heat has one thing going for it, it has been through tough times this year. Expected to dominate the league after the free-agent coup that brought in James and Chris Bosh to go with Dwyane Wade, it had a miserable start to the season. And it lost five straight a month before the regular season ended. Both times the Heat bounced back with a vengeance.

``We・ve seen it all year long,・・ Gibson said. ``We know they・re going to come out with a lot of fire. It・s the playoffs. It・s going to be a dogfight.・・

Asked if it was a pride thing, James replied: ``Is it a pride thing? It・s competitive. This is the biggest stage. If you don・t have it by this point, you・re in the wrong business.・・

Wade also indicated the Heat is just getting warmed up.

``We・ve been behind before in our careers,・・ the Chicago native said. ``[We] understand that you have to approach every game, every possession as its own. You can・t think, `We・re down one game.・ It・s a seven-game series. We moved on from Game 1 yesterday. Today we come in and prepare for Game 2. We approach it totally different than Game 1.・・

