CHICAGO -- Play harder. Play smarter. Rebound more. Loiter less. Be big. Be aggressive. Be the ball.

OK, so maybe not that last one. But all those others tips, insights and bits of wisdom for how the Miami Heat should approach Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals figure to be on display Wednesday night at the United Center. If it were up to the Heat -- desperate not to fall into a 2-0 hole, yet confident about needing only a split of these first two games in Chicago to calm down everyone except the Bulls -- they would do everything better and bigger and smarter and harder than they did in the 103-82 opening loss Sunday.

What is more likely will come down to, though, is a playoff credo that no team is better equipped to heed than Miami: Stars gotta play like stars.

If the stars play like stars, the Bulls are in trouble because Miami has more of them. In Game 1, only Chris Bosh lived up to the reputation, scoring 30 points, grabbing nine rebounds, getting to the foul line consistently and putting pressure on Chicago's defense both inside and out.

LeBron James and Dwyane Wade seemed to confuse the idea of playing as one with playing like one. Combined -- 33 points, nine rebounds, nine assists, 8-of-8 from the line -- the two did what one of them can do alone, most nights and especially in big games.

Double that and, even with Bosh dialing back to 20 points or so, and the Heat already would have their split and be greedy for more.

The Bulls, or at least those who have been around for more than this single season, know all too well how James can bounce back from an unpleasant result. After they eked out a two-point victory over his Cleveland Cavaliers last spring in Game 3 of their first-round series, James stormed back with a triple-double in Game 4 -- 37 points, 12 rebounds, 11 assists, hitting 6-of-9 from the arc and 11-of-17 overall -- in a 121-98 blowout.

He didn't have and didn't need Wade at his side that day. And it wasn't unusual: The last seven times James has been held below 20 points, he has averaged 31.7 points and shot 57 percent from the field in the game next.

Wade has been known to fire back, too: Since Christmas, after the 13 games in which he scored fewer than 20 points, the Miami shooting guard has averaged 28.3 points.

"I expect their best shot [in Game 2], whatever that is," Bulls guard Kyle Korver said after practice Tuesday. "I'm sure they feel they can play a lot better. I know the mindset when you're the road team, coming in, is to just get one. I don't think they're that discouraged. If they can come out and get Game 2, they're going to feel really, really good about themselves and the pressure will be back on us."

The Heat will try to do better on the boards, where the Bulls made up for 43.7 percent shooting in Game 1 -- and more than that, damaged Miami's all-important "want-to" -- with 19 offensive rebounds and 31 second-chance points. Double- and triple-possessions can do that to even the best defense, and that demoralizing factor went all one way Sunday (the Heat had only six offensive rebounds and eight second-chance points).

But roster limitations won't allow coach Erik Spoelstra to simply turn to better rebounders. His big-man choices still are limited to Joel Anthony (active defender but not great boarder), Jamal Magloire (bulk), Juwan Howard (mostly old) and the two tallest guys who were sitting in suits through Game 1: Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Erick Dampier.

Those two aging centers started 73 games for the Heat in the regular season, combined for 7.5 rebounds and were seen as optional at this stage because of Spoelstra's results using a smaller lineup against Philadelphia and Boston in the previous rounds. But that didn't (Game 1) and likely won't work through the series against Chicago. Playing Z and Damp big minutes isn't the rebounding, either; it's getting more from Wade, James and even Bosh.

"The cavalry is our mentality," Spoelstra said, about any temptation to look over their shoulders for help.

Said Bosh: "It's not about bigger bodies. It's just about wanting the ball. Go get the ball by any means. ... I was always looking for the answers to the rebounding and all that stuff. A dude just told me 'Just go get the ball' one day. It made sense. It's all about having the will to go do it."

Getting more of the Bulls' misses will enable the Heat to trigger their fast break, in which James and Wade are nearly unstoppable. Without fouling, anyway.

That will be one of Chicago's biggest adjustments-to-an-adjustment for Game 2: Playing as tightly, as cohesively and as aggressively on defense without fouling -- or even appearing to foul -- the Miami stars.

James (8.4), Wade (8.6) and Bosh (6.1) averaged 23.1 free-throw attempts in the regular season. They each had games this season in which they shot 28, 24 and 24 respectively. In Game 1, they combined for only 14 and the Heat's 15 was a team low (by four) in the postseason low.

The Bulls understand that, at some point, at home if not on the road, depending on the officiating crew, Miami's stars are going to get star calls.

The keys, defensive-minded coach Tom Thibodeau said, are A) to avoid turnovers that will create mayhem out of which James and Wade can explode to the rim, and B) to show enough help defenders in the halfcourt that neither is able or inclined to generate the speed that referees often reward.

"You have to have floor balance," Thibodeau said. "You want to get back and get set and you want to have as many defenders in the lane as possible. So there aren't open driving lanes to get to the basket. We'll be tested. They'll drive. We'll drive. It will be an aggressive game. It's the playoffs."

It's a seven-game series, any four of which Miami can win to achieve its next goal. Chicago knows that, too, along with the fact that plenty of teams -- seven out of 54, to be exact, since the current format began in 1984 -- have won Game 1 of a conference finals yet lost the series.