The NBA is a superstar league. But defense is a constant.

Those universal basketball truths will be put to the test when the Bulls face the Heat in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals tonight at the United Center.

The Bulls dominated the second half of Game 1 to rout the Heat 103-82 with a classic display of team defense that had Charles Barkley calling it the best he had ever seen.

But the Heat still has two of the biggest trump cards in the game in LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, who don몭t get contained for long. James scored 15 points on 5-of-15 shooting in Game 1.

The last seven times James was held below 20 points, he averaged 31.7 points on 57 percent shooting the next game. Wade scored 18 on 7-for-17 shooting and was dunked on by Taj Gibson and stoned by Omer Asik. The last time he scored fewer than 20 points 멪 14 in Game 2 of the first round against the 76ers 멪 he responded with 32 points, 10 rebounds and eight assists.

But the Bulls aren몭t the 76ers, or the Grizzlies, or the Pacers, or the Hawks or even the Celtics at this point.

They몭re the best defensive team in the NBA playing their best defense of the season.

몬몬Your defense and rebounding are two things you want to be able to count on every night,몭몭 Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said. 몬몬Some nights you몭re not going to shoot better than others. But if you몭re doing those other two things, you should still have a chance to win.몭몭

Even with Derrick Rose having an MVP season, the Bulls have relied on their defense as a fallback in tough situations. And in the playoffs, their defense has improved throughout series. The Pacers scored 99 points in Game 1 in the first round and never more than 90 after that. The Hawks scored 103 in Game 1 of the conference semifinals and averaged 82 after that.

But James and Wade are not Danny Granger-Darren Collison or Joe Johnson-Jamal Crawford. The big question is whether James and Wade can step up their own games and lift their teammates to a new level at the same time. Against the Bulls몭 defense, it might be the ultimate NBA conflict.

The only certainty is that the Heat will adjust after the Game 1 debacle. Coach Eric Spoelstra figures to 몬몬go big몭몭 with 7-3 center Zydrunas Ilgauskas and 6-8, 235-pound Udonis Haslem to help nullify the Bulls몭 45-33 edge on the boards 멪 including 19-6 on offensive rebounds.

And James, a superior player anywhere on the floor, could help inside at both ends.

몬몬We have to do a better job of rebounding,몭몭 James said. 몬몬[Game 1 was the] fourth straight time we몭ve gotten outrebounded by the Bulls. That몭s where they몭re dominant.몭몭

The Bulls are ready for anything.

몬몬I몭m sure something is going to be different,몭몭 Bulls forward Luol Deng said. 몬몬We몭re going to focus on whatever it is they want to focus on. We have to make the adjustment.

몬몬We몭re not looking to change anything. Our defense is always the same sets. We have coverage for everything. If they come with something, we have a counter for it. So I think we몭re prepared well for it.몭몭

After getting only 11 assists in Game 1 (to 23 for the Bulls), the Heat is pledging to 몬몬move the ball몭몭 to create weak spots in the Bulls몭 defense. But that몭s not a sure-fire tack against the Bulls. The Heat was tied for 26th in the NBA in assists in the regular season (20.0). They몭re 15th of 16 teams in the playoffs (15.2).

Then again, if moving the ball puts Wade and James in better positions for isolation plays, it몭s the same effect.

몬몬Miami몭s been a good ball-movement team all year,몭몭 Thibodeau said. 몬몬Often they have players who, when the ball comes back to them, can go one-on-one, and that몭s what makes them so dangerous and tough to guard.

몬몬The fact that they have three primary weapons [James, Wade and Chris Bosh] keeps a lot of pressure on you at all times. James and Wade are very unselfish. When that second defender comes, they몭re moving the ball. It몭s not an easy coverage.몭몭

While the Bulls are being careful not to make too much of their impressive rout in Game 1, history says that 102-83 might be an indicator the Bulls are the better team.

No NBA team has won the opener of a conference-finals series by 20 points or more and lost the series since 1982, when the Celtics ripped the 76ers 121-81 but lost the series 4-3. In fact, no team has won the opener of a conference finals series by double digits and failed to win the series since 1986.

As usual, team defense should make the difference. Unless James and Wade decide that it doesn몭t.

