CHICAGO -- Let's take a quick look at how the Miami Heat earned an 85-75 win over the Chicago Bulls in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals Wednesday night at the United Center. The series is now tied at 1.

How it happened: Derrick Rose scored 21 points, but it wasn't enough for a Bulls team that had no offensive rhythm throughout most of the night. The Bulls simply couldn't buy a bucket when they needed one. The Heat's defense was solid for most of the night, but the Bulls couldn't hit the open looks when they got them. The team shot just 34 percent from the floor. Luol Deng had nine points in the first quarter but finished with just 13 for the game. LeBron James and Dwyane Wade combined for 53 points after managing just 35 in Game 1. Udonis Haslem came in and gave Miami a huge boost with 13 points and five rebounds. Unlike in Game 1, the Heat consistently got to the rim.

What it means: The Bulls did not play their game Wednesday night, especially in the second half. They scored just 10 points in the fourth quarter. They allowed Miami to set the tone, and the Heat seemed to get to all the loose balls the Bulls were grabbing Sunday night. The Bulls looked as frustrated on offense as they have all postseason. Rose didn't drive to the rim as much as he had the past few weeks and settled for too many jumpers. Carlos Boozer was a nonfactor in the game, scoring just seven points and going 3-for-10 from the field. After looking so confident after Game 1, the Bulls looked like a team searching for answers in Game 2. Usually Rose comes up with one late for the Bulls, but on this night he couldn't overcome James.

Stats of the night: Aside from the Bulls shooting just 34 percent from the field, they were just 3-for-20 from beyond the arc and just 16-for-26 at the foul line. The most disconcerting stat of all for Tom Thibodeau might be the fact that the Bulls were outscored 50-34 in the paint. They also were outrebounded 45-41.

What's next: Game 3 is Sunday night in Miami. Given how tired some of the players on both teams looked at the end of this one, it will be interesting to see whether both coaches decide to practice Thursday afternoon. 