Where were you when the home team needed you? Since you moved to Chicago, nearly everything you touched has turned into Fort Knox, and could the Bulls have used that kind of magic Wednesday night.

Maybe you could have guarded Udonis Haslem. No one else could.

Game 2 was a crucial moment in the Eastern Conference finals, with the Bulls ahead 1-0 and a chance to really do some work on the Miami Heat psyche. United Center hadn't been this loud since, well, the night before, when you walked off the stage after your farewell show.

The reason this series has had so much downtime because everyone had to wait for you to ask the last question. "We'll take a back seat to Oprah any day," Miami's Dwyane Wade said.

See? He and his teammates certainly didn't look like they feel that way about the Bulls. You make more money than the Bulls, but they shoot better. Most of the time, anyway. Derrick Rose went 7-for-23 Wednesday night and Miami won 85-75.

The Heat played like they meant it, on a night they showed how much more connected all the Miami dots are. They blew an 11-point lead in the second half, and had to escape a feverish arena where the Bulls had gone 42-6.

They survived a defensive slugfest that included blood, bruises, grit teeth and grunts. Oprah, sometimes it looked like The Jerry Springer Show. Miami scored only 14 points the fourth quarter, but that was OK, because Chicago scored only 10. "A great collective effort of endurance," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra called it. Also, "an absolute street fight."

Looked like real trouble for Miami when the Bulls pulled to a 73-73 tie, but then LeBron James started scoring, and that was the end of that. He finished with 29 points, and his head cold didn't look so bad, did it?

"Whatever it takes at this point," he said afterward. "I put it all on the line tonight."

And he wasn't even the Miami star of the game. That would have been Haslem, one of the forgotten Heat, meaning his last name is not James, Wade or Bosh. He played 13 games all season because of a torn foot ligament in November, and he put in only seven minutes in the Boston series, so who saw him coming?

Spoelstra apparently did, mentioning he had looked into Haslem's eyes this week and "knew it was time."

So when the Big Three went dry for an astounding 11? minutes in the second half ¡V an phenomenon equivalent to the courtside appearance of Bigfoot ¡X Haslem did all the scoring. He ended with 13 points, or only three fewer than Joakim Noah and Carlos Boozer put together.

Since you weren't around to size up this series ¡V you've tackled racism and infidelity, I figured you could talk about the Heat ¡V I went looking for a substitute celebrity before the game.

How about the guy with two rings through his nose and one through his lower lip. He looked like a reliable source.

"I can see this series going five or six games, but Chicago should win it," he was saying to a gaggle of reporters. He also had one other shocking revelation.

"I turned 50 last week," Dennis Rodman mentioned.

Good grief. Wasn't it only yesterday he was the kid hanging around with Madonna for about 15 minutes? They've probably been on your show.

Nothing underlines more what this new Chicago bunch is trying to do than when one of the old Bulls from the glory days happens by. Rodman had been in United Center once since the lights went out on the Jordan era in 1998 ¡V to see Scottie Pippen's No. 33 retired.

But about Miami.

'They've got three players, right?" Rodman said. "And they're making, what, $500 million? If you notice, no one gives a (bleep) about the rest of the players."

Three hours later, the Bulls certainly gave a (bleep) about Haslem.

And that's where ended. A 2-0 lead would have looked especially promising for Chicago, but now Miami has the home court advantage and the knowledge it can win here.

"We let one go but it's a tied series. It's not the end of the world," Chicago's Luol Deng said.

"It's just started," James cautioned of the series.

But this much is certain Oprah. The Bulls crowd went home a lot more unfulfilled than yours did.

