While a lot of fans were filled with euphoria following the Chicago Bulls' Game 1 thrashing of the Miami Heat, the feeling that filled my mind was one of concern. You see, it is not easy for teams to duplicate such a dominating performance, especially in the post-season. When the two teams squared off in Game 2 on May 18, I was hoping the Bulls had somehow removed the first game from their system because I figured Miami would be a much different team than the one we saw in Game 1. As expected, the Heat had a much better showing this time around, and in doing so, they managed to even the series at 1-1 with an 85-75 victory at the United Center. The shortcomings for the Bulls were many in Game 2, but these are the areas that stood out the most.

After Game 1, James stated that the Bulls had won the rebounding battle in all four games played between the teams this season and if Miami was going to get back into the series, they would need to step up their efforts on the glass. Needless to say, the message was received. The Heat were the aggressors in Game 2, as they out-rebounding Chicago 45-41. Anytime you are able to take away an opponent's strength, good things usually happen and that is what the Heat were able to do in Game 2.

Udonis Who?:

In Game 1, LeBron James(notes) and Dwayne Wade combined to shoot only 12-for-32 from the field for a total of 33 points. It was no surprise that the two superstars bounced back in Game 2 as James scored 29 points (12-of-21) and Wade scored 24 points (8-of-16). Despite their improved efficiency from the floor, this is not what killed the Bulls. The player that Chicago did not have an answer for was Udonis Haslem(notes). Haslem gave the Heat a much needed lift off the bench, scoring 13 points to go along with 5 rebounds, in just 23 minutes of play. His nine points in the third quarter were huge in helping Miami jump out to a 67-56 lead. When an opposing team's bench player outscores your starting power-forward, it usually means that your team is in for a long night at the office.

Frigid Shooting:

As a fan, it is always painful to watch the home team struggle so mightily on offense. The Bulls began the game missing 14 of their first 16 shot attempts, enabling Miami to get off to a fast start. The poor shooting was masked by the fact that Chicago rallied to take a 26-19 lead after the first period, following a long three-pointer by Luol Deng(notes). The most crucial juncture of the game came with seven minutes remaining, after Chicago went on a 17-6 run to tie the score at 73. When Chicago needed to be at their best offensively, it simply did not happen. The Bulls could only manage two points the rest of way, missing 10 of their final 11 shots, while Miami scored 12 of the game's final 14 points. You can't win games if you are not able to score and the Bulls definitely had a difficult time manufacturing points in Game 2.

Defensive Adjustment:

Derrick Rose(notes) played solid in Game 1 scoring 28 points and handing out six assists. In Game 2, the MVP was held to 21 points while hitting on just seven of his 23 attempts. Give Miami credit, they denied Rose's path to the lane for a majority of the game. This forced Rose to settle for a ton of perimeter shots, which is not the recipe for success in the playoffs. The Bulls are a much different team when Rose is able to get to the rim with consistency. When that is not the case, the team usually winds up on the losing end of the box score, which was the case after this game.

With the series shifting to South Beach for Games 3 and 4, the Bulls will need to find a way to bounce back from this demoralizing loss. I think defensively, the Bulls are in good shape as they have held Miami to 82 and 85 points in the first two games. However, they must regain their shooting touch and show a little more patience on offense as they did in Game 1. As Dwayne Wade stated before Game 2, the only way to quiet a road crowd is to put the ball through the hoop". I predict the Bulls will steal one of the next two games on the road to bring the series back to Chicago tied at 2-2.