CHICAGO ¡X Holding the Miami Heat to two points in the first 7 ? minutes of the final period, the Chicago Bulls felt they were primed for a stirring come-from-behind victory at the United Center Wednesday night.

But the Heat turned the tables, holding Chicago to two points in the final seven minutes and scoring an 85-75 win to square the Eastern Conference finals at one game apiece.

"We know we gave one away," said forward Luol Deng, whose 5-for-15 shooting night was typical of the Bulls' offensive woes.

    GAME 2: Heat bounce back in Chicago
    HEAT: Lifted by Haslem's return
    PHOTO GALLERY: Top images from the NBA playoffs
    SCHEDULE: Complete matchups, dates and results

Chicago scored just 10 points in the fourth quarter and shot 34% from the field for the night.

The Bulls trailed by six, 71-65, at the end of three quarters, but rallied to tie the game at 73 with 7:16 left. Then they went cold and LeBron James scored nine points in the final 4:16 to put the game away for Miami.

"Late we had tied it. I thought we would have pulled it off, but LeBron came up big at the end," Deng said.

"We talked all year about the fourth quarter and how it's always our best quarter," said forward Kyle Korver, held to 1-of-7 shooting for the night. "And we started off really well. Towards the end, we didn't get great looks and the ones we did went in and out. We just never got good rhythm at the end of the game."

"If anything, I think we lost the game because of our (lack of) intensity on defense," said Derrick Rose, who shot only 7-for-23 and finished with 21 points, eight assists and six rebounds. "We let them get easy baskets, especially in transition. We can't do that if we're trying to win this series."

Rose said his poor shooting performance was "just one of those nights, I guess.

"Everybody was missing easy bunnies that we normally hit," he added.

After being outrebounded 45-33 in Game 1, the Heat won the battle of the boards Wednesday, 45-41.

"I just thought they got too many second shots, way too many," Deng said. "It was a fight. It was tied towards the end and they won the fight tonight."

Added Korver, "We can't let them play harder than us. That has to be us," Korver said.

"Tough loss," he added. "I think we'll bounce back. That's what we've done all year."

The series is even heading to Miami for the next two games, starting with Game 3 Sunday.

"The body language is a little down, but ¡K no time for excuses, no time for pouting. We understand what we have to do," said Taj Gibson. 