As expected, LeBron James(notes) and Dwyane Wade(notes) came up big in Game 2 of the NBA Eastern Conference Finals, leading their team to a 85-75 win over the Chicago Bulls. The officiating in Game 2 was as bad as I've seen so far in the 2011 NBA Playoffs, yet the Heat kept their composure, displaying their maturity as a team to the basketball world.

LeBron James was on fire in Game 2, shooting 57 percent from the field. James finished with a game high 29 points, along with 10 rebounds and 5 assists. Dwyane was significantly better in Game 2 as well, finishing the game with 24 points and 9 rebounds for Miami.

The Heat received an unexpected boost from Udonis Haslem(notes), who missed most of the 2010/11 NBA regular season due to an injury. Haslem was definitely a significant part of the Heat's win, finishing the game with 13 points and 5 rebounds.

For a moment, Game 2 looked like a replay of the series opener, with the Bulls destroying the Heat on the offensive glass in the opening quarter. The Bulls built up a seven point lead in the first quarter, but the Heat answered back in the second. Thanks to the referees, the Bulls would hang on close to the Heat until the final five minutes of the game, when LeBron decided he had seen enough. James took over the game, completely silencing Chicago fans with his impressive play.

I have to give Erik Spoelstra credit for making the necessary adjustments after Game 1. The Heat did a much better job on the reigning MVP in Game 2, holding Derrick Rose(notes) to a less than spectacular 30 percent field goal conversion rate. The Heat's defense against the Bulls in Game 2 was nothing short of spectacular, holding the Bulls to 34 percent from the field. The Heat also out-rebounded the Bulls in Game 2, pulling down 45 rebounds compared to Chicago's 41. However, Miami still has to do a better job of boxing out the Bulls on defense, as Chicago still managed to pull down 17 offensive rebounds.

Right now, things are looking good for the Heat as they go back to Miami with home-court advantage.