Twenty-four points ¡X Miami Heat 14, Chicago Bulls 10 ¡X were scored in the final quarter in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals Wednesday.

"That fourth quarter is probably what's going to epitomize this entire series," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said after his team evened the series at 1-1 with the 85-75 victory at the Bulls.

"It's an absolute street fight for both teams. It's physical basketball. Defensive-oriented teams. I don't know if the basketball aficionado likes a 14-10 score in the fourth quarter, but that's probably what it's going to come down to and what it will take, often, in these games."

    PREVIEW: Eastern Conference finals Game 3
    PHOTO GALLERY: Top shots from the NBA playoffs
    SCHEDULE: Complete matchups, dates and results

The Heat and Bulls made nine of 31 shots in the fourth quarter.

The offensive blight, however, is mitigated by stingy and effective defense.

Beauty is subjective, and this has not always been aesthetically pleasing basketball. But if defense fascinates, it has been great theater.

Shots contested. The ballhandler hounded. Screens broken.

Heat forward LeBron James, one of the best players on the planet, can't find many easy shots.

"There weren't many creases out there. If you don't like a defensive game, then you wouldn't like this one," James said.

The Bulls played outstanding defense in Game 1, even with Miami forward Chris Bosh getting 30 points. Although Chicago coach Tom Thibodeau wasn't pleased with that, the Bulls will take their chances with Bosh hitting 30 and Dwyane James and Wade each scoring less than 20.

The Heat returned the favor in Game 2. Miami allowed two points on one of 12 Bulls shooting in the final 7:09 and contained MVP Derrick Rose, who didn't make a field goal in the fourth quarter.

"We tried different bodies on him all night. Mario (Chalmers), myself, Mike (Miller) all had him," Wade said. "We made it tough for him when we got the ball."

The teams share similar defensive styles. They both want to keep opponents from scoring inside the paint, and they don't want shooters having good looks at the basket from the three-point line.

They also preach help defense because players such as Wade, James and Rose are just too difficult to contain one-on-one for 40-plus minutes.

The Bulls' big men are more versatile and are able to switch who they are guarding with little trouble. The Heat's big men aren't as versatile, so they don't switch as much. That's not an issue because Wade and James, and some of Miami's other perimeter players, are long and fast enough to recover and defend their man.

The one favorable Heat trend that has emerged is their ability to score inside the paint. The Heat have outscored the Bulls 96-72 there while shooting 66.7% compared to 42.9%.

"If anything they closed down the lane," Rose said of the Game 2 defense.

Back in the laboratories ¡X coaches' offices ¡X Spoelstra and Thibodeau are scheming, trying to find ways to stop the other team from scoring.