Despite the referees doing everything in their power to hand the Chicago Bulls another win in the United Center on Wednesday, May 18, LeBron James(notes), Dwyane Wade(notes), and the Miami Heat were able to overcome the horrific officiating and pull out an 85-75 victory.

They weren't as lucky on Sunday, May 15 as the zebras swallowed their whistles at every turn when the Bulls "smothering" defense was literally mugging Heat players on Miami's every possession. Because of that¡Xand the fact Chicago was able to hit 10-of-21 from beyond the arc¡Xthe Heat were "routed" 103-82 in Game 1 of the best-of-seven 2011 NBA Eastern Conference Finals.

The men in the white-and-black striped shirts tried their best to give Bulls fans a repeat performance, calling only 25 fouls on Chicago when in truth they probably committed closer to 60 in the game.

That's right, 60 fouls or more. I haven't had time to completely review the game I DVRed, but I was able to use the instant replay more than a couple dozen times and see a myriad of fouls the refs mysteriously swallowed their whistles on.

Of course, Reggie Miller and the TNT staff¡Xright up until the game clearly became one the Heat would win¡Xwere over-the-top in their continued denial the Bulls were getting away with numerous fouls.

In fact, about the only complaining I recall hearing from Miller was about "three or four calls" as he put it that went against the Bulls; all of which were absolutely, 100 percent correct calls.

Leave it to Miller to pretend a Heat player playing solid defense is worthy of a foul being called; while the Bulls nearly committing felonious assault on the court is just "smothering" defense worthy of praise.

If it wasn't for Miami being able to pull this game out, I probably would have been tempted to throw something through my television listening to these guys; it's gotten that bad.

And truthfully, about the only reason Miami was able to pull out this victory was because Chicago simply couldn't hit a shot. Some of that was due to the Heat's amazing defense, but it was also because the Bulls just couldn't make a shot. Chicago had a number of open looks at the basket, but they weren't falling, and LeBron was able to insert the dagger into the rotted carcass of the Bulls.

One thing I can be excited about, though, is the fact LeBron was able to show the world how unworthy of being MVP Derrick Rose(notes) was. It wasn't Rose hitting those "clutch" shots in the fourth quarter of a crucial and possibly pivotal Game 2, it was James; knocking down amazingly tough shot after tough shot in the final period to cement the win for the Heat.

James finished with a game-high 29 points on 12-of-21 from the floor to go along with 10 rebounds, five assists, and three steals. Although he struggled from the free-throw line, missing four of his seven attempts, as well as from downtown (2-of-6), his last three-pointer was the one that broke the Bulls' back.

Coming with just 4:28 left on the clock in the final period, that dagger from downtown broke a 73-73 tie and sent shockwaves through the Bulls home crowd; as they began to realize their vaunted team, even with the help of the refs, might not pull out a win on the night.

Although Taj Gibson(notes) would find a way to get a layup to go with 2:29 left in the game to pull the Bulls to within three again after James had made a 14-foot jumper to put Miami up 78-73, that would be the last points Chicago would score.

Instead, it would be Wade and LeBron finishing out the scoring as Dwyane made 3-of-4 from the free-throw line in those final two minutes of the game after driving hard to the basket both times and drawing the foul, and James would sink two more amazing buckets; a pretty putback of a layup attempt and an electrifying 20-footer over the outstretched arms of Luol Deng(notes).

Deng scored a lucky 42-foot shot at the end of the first half, as LeBron stepped out of his way in order to avoid a silly foul. That decision garnered James ridicule by many almost immediately (I won't name names), but I imagine LeBron is having the last laugh now, as are Heat fans such as myself.

I don't know what's going to happen once the series returns to Miami on Sunday, May 22, and if the Heat have to face the same egregious officiating in AmericanAirlines Arena as they did in the United Center, even the kind of contributions they got from players like Udonis Haslem(notes)¡Xwho was able to come through in Game 2 with 13 points on 5-of-10 shooting to go along with eight rebounds¡Xmight not be enough.

However, Wade scored only 24 points on 8-of-16 from the floor to go along with nine rebounds, two assists, a steal, and two blocked shots in Game 2, and I believe he'll be more than energized once he's back in front of the Heat faithful.

Look for him to light it up for more than 30 points in that game, and if they're able to get a better game from Chris Bosh(notes) more reminiscent of his Game 1 performance than what he did in Game 2 (10 points and eight rebounds), Miami might just have a chance.

So, Miami and their fans will see Chicago on Sunday, and the Heat and their faithful can only hope either the refs start calling it fair, or LeBron and Wade can once again shoulder the load and overcome the horrific officiating.