TORONTO - The Eastern Conference final is about to get very interesting.

It is not a stretch to say Sunday¡¦s Game 3 is the biggest outing of the season for the Miami Heat and visiting Chicago Bulls.

The series has gone pretty much as expected so far, with both teams splitting a game in the Windy City, but the way they got to this point is a bit surprising.

Few saw LeBron James being completely handcuffed in the first game of the series, throwing up a 5-15 stinker with four turnovers while the Bulls ran away with a 21-point win.

We all saw the return of the King in Game 2 (29 points, 10 rebounds) coming, but not Chicago shooting a woeful 34.1%.

Chicago¡¦s Derrick Rose might be the NBA¡¦s MVP, but LeBron is the series¡¦ pivotal player.

Bulls forward Luol Deng defends James as well as anybody in the league, as the first game of the series proved. James has shot less than 43% only 11 times in his career ¡X most of those times when guarded by Deng, including an 8-28 horror show. But Deng could only watch in amazement like everybody else when James reeled off nine points in the final 4:27 of Game 2.

With megastars Rose and Dwyane Wade basically cancelling each other out in terms of potential impact, it is up to James to define this series.

Though some will never put James in the pantheon of greats who earned rings virtually by themselves instead of forming a superteam, a title would still go a long way for James, both on and off the court.

A report on Thursday stated a championship win for James and the Heat would add $4 billion US to the coffers of Nike from China alone.

The two-time league MVP must win it all before he can truly become a worthy successor to Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant.

Though James is a key to where this series goes from here, he isn¡¦t the only one.

The frontcourt battle has been tremendous so far and will continue to be important.

Chris Bosh was the best Heat player in the opener before coming back to earth in Game 2, while Carlos Boozer ¡X the man so bitter that Miami opted to go with Bosh instead of him last summer that he has openly mocked Bosh ¡X has been underwhelming.

More interesting than the Bosh-Boozer subplot or Joakim Noah¡¦s exploits on the glass against Montreal¡¦s Joel Anthony, has been the battle of the big men off the bench.

Taj Gibson and Omer Asik were highly influential in Chicago¡¦s win, but were overshadowed by Udonis Haslem in the equalizer when Haslem took out six months of frustration on the Bulls.

Gibson plays a lot like a young Haslem, but Haslem has years of experience he can draw on to take advantage of the talented sophomore.

Whichever team figures out first how to shoot the basketball from outside again will also be in good shape.

Miami went 3-13 (23.1%) from outside, Chicago 3-20 (15%) from three in the previous game.

This corner still maintains the Bulls will win this series, even though James is more likely to be excellent than sub-par.

Why? We¡¦ll give you three reasons.

The easy one: Home court advantage. It¡¦s massive in basketball and Da Bulls play at the United Center, one of the loudest and biggest arenas in the league.

The other two reasons to like the Bulls? They take care of the ball ¡X just 19 turnovers through two games to Miami¡¦s 31 ¡X and they attack the glass at a championship-calibre level with 36 offensive rebounds to just 16 for Miami through two.

Miami might have the Big 3, but if those numbers hold, it won¡¦t be enough.

