1. All that being said, this writer believes this round is where the Bulls' run ends. The simple logic goes something like this: Playoff basketball is about execution and matchups, and when both teams are playing at such a high level, superstars take over. If Derrick Rose, LeBron James and Dwyane Wade are each good for winning one game with special virtuoso performances, that gives the Heat a 2-1 lead. Chicago can win one game with a gem of a defensive outing, but expecting more than that against the talent of Miami would be foolhardy. Then, the Bulls should get at least one outstanding collective effort--pinpoint marksmanship from Kyle Korver, an all-around effort from Luol Deng, Carlos Boozer on his game, Joakim Noah impacting the game with his frenetic energy and various role players rising to the occasion--to win another contest. But on the the Heat side, one has to expect a dual-dominant game from James and Wade, and at least one game where Chris Bosh shows up. That makes it 4-3, Miami. It might seem like heresy around these parts, but here's guessing the Bulls appreciate one more doubter providing motivation. Reverse psychology, people.

2. Boozer's bounce-back game in the Bulls' second-round series finale was more than encouraging to his coaches and teammates. "It's huge. It gives you an inside post-up game and it gives you a strong pick-and-roll game," said Thibodeau. "You could see it in the last three games. His moves, he can jump again, so obviously that's critical in getting your shots off inside and he started hitting the jumper, but you could just see it by how he's moving now that he's healthy again." Added Rose: "He just had to get his groove, that's about it. His confidence is high, it's back where it needs to be, knocking down shots, everything that he was doing was quicker, more efficient, shooting the ball, not hesitating and that's the 'Booz' that we know." Rose believes some of Boozer's issues were mental. "Over-thinking. When you're not playing as well as you're supposed to be playing, that's the only thing that you do, over-think. In this game, you've just got to play, do whatever the game tells you to do and at the time, 'Booz' was just trying to force things," said Rose. "We need him, we definitely him." Noah chimed in: "He played a very confident game and we needed that from Carlos. We know that when Carlos is playing at a high level, it just takes our team to a whole other level." Deng concurred: "We knew it was coming. Carlos was in here working. His toe was bothering him a little bit, he stuck with it and we just knew it was a matter of time. It just came at the right time and hopefully he carries it on to the next series." Through all of Boozer's offensive struggles, Thibodeau argued that it was necessary for the power forward to remain on the court. "His rebounding's been there the whole time, so that's why we don't want to take him off the floor, because of that." 3. Solid play from Noah is always a boon to the Bulls, but against Miami, in particular, the center will need to be effective, as he has the upper hand in his matchup with Heat counterpart Joel Anthony, who's primary strength is help defense and weak-side shot-blocking. "The important thing for him is to play to his strengths. That's to run the floor, be active on the offensive boards and take the opportunities that present themselves," Thibodeau explained. "Joakim has been very effective attacking when Derrick's being double-teamed. He knows how to find the open area and make plays. He's been very efficient in that way, but getting into the open floor and running is critical for us."

4. In the wake of Korver's struggles in the last few games of the Hawks series--he only playing four minutes in Game 5--Thibodeau quickly downplayed the notion the sharpshooter's playing time will be limited moving forward. "We're  talking about one game. Kyle has pretty much played the same amount of minutes at the same time virtually the entire year, so that's not going to change," said Thibodeau. "We're confident in him. He's hit big shot after big shot all season long and he's done this now for many years in this league, so he doesn't have to prove anything to us, other than continue to do his job."