So what does an MVP do when he has a day off?

¡§I stayed in,¡¦¡¦ Derrick Rose said Friday. ¡§Just watched movies, played games. Being around my friends, stuff like that.¡¦¡¦

Anything good?

¡§It¡¦s really all DVDs,¡¦¡¦ Rose said. ¡§ ¡¥Saved by the Bell¡¦, things like that. It¡¦s old, but I like watching it. I have an old soul.¡¦¡¦

But as Rose lounged around Thursday, trying to put the memory of the Bulls¡¦ disappointing Game 2 loss to the Miami Heat behind him, something was churning in the back of his mind: The importance of getting back on the horse on -Sunday night in Miami.

¡§It¡¦s very important,¡¦¡¦ Rose said. ¡§I really want this game. We really want this next game. We¡¦re anxious. We¡¦re just wanting to go out there and play.¡¦¡¦

The Bulls haven¡¦t lost back-to-back games since Feb. 5 and 7, and they haven¡¦t lost three in a row all season. But Rose didn¡¦t want to hear that.

¡§Don¡¦t jinx us like that,¡¦¡¦ he said with a quiet smile. ¡§If anything, we look at film. We look at the -reason we lost. Our energy, our intensity wasn¡¦t there. Rebounding the ball. The smalls have to get back and rebound the ball. [Coach Tom Thibodeau] explained to us that we didn¡¦t play with a good pace, especially on the offensive end. We feel bad about it. And now we¡¦re off to the next game.¡¦¡¦

There will be adjustments. But something much more important than tactics will determine the outcome.

¡§Will. Definitely, will,¡¦¡¦ Rose said. ¡§Every game is like that now, where the talent is equal. It¡¦s all about will. Who wants it more.¡¦¡¦

Game 3 might have the trappings of a heavyweight fight. In the main event, Rose will go head to head with LeBron James, who won the NBA¡¦s previous two MVP awards.

Rose is all about his team and winning ¡X not beating James. But he has no trepidations about going up against the immensely talented James, either.

¡§It makes it fun, playing against his team,¡¦¡¦ Rose said. ¡§Everything you hear, it¡¦s about us and them. You can¡¦t run from it. It comes with the territory. If anything, have fun with it and feel blessed that you¡¦re in this situation.¡¦¡¦

There are differences, of course. In this contest, no one¡¦s going to be saved by the bell.

And basketball, unlike boxing, is a team sport. How much support the two biggest stars receive from their teammates will have a lot to do with the outcome.

¡§Superstars on every team are going to take as many shots as they want every night,¡¦¡¦ Kyle Korver said. ¡§They get the ball the whole time. That¡¦s the way the playoffs go.

¡§They need to have space to operate. We need to knock down shots to give them some space, and we need to execute well. We need to screen and to separate. If they go one-on-five against us, we¡¦re going to win. If we go one-on-five against them, they¡¦re going to win.¡¦¡¦

In Game 1, the Bulls clogged up the lane on James, who went 5-for-15 in a 103-82 Bulls romp. In
Game 2, the Heat won 85-75, turning the tables on Rose, who went 10-for-22 with his driving lanes clogged and no teammates taking the Heat off of him.

¡§If you¡¦re not shooting well, their defense will be sitting in the lane,¡¦¡¦ said Thibodeau, who wants to see more uptempo play to keep the Heat from getting set. ¡§They¡¦re a great help team. That¡¦s why it¡¦s so important to play with pace. So the -defense is spread out.¡¦¡¦