The Heat stand alone when it comes to success at home during this year's playoffs.

They are the only team to have won all their home games in the postseason, but aren't banking on that providing any type of edge for Sunday's Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Chicago Bulls.

"There's no time for an exhale," Heat forward LeBron James said.

"We're in the conference finals. We understand that this team is a very hard-working team and is going to come to try to steal home court back. We've done some great things on our home court this postseason and we're looking to continue to do that. Our fans deserve that."

Miami evened the series by stealing a game in Chicago behind a strong fourth quarter from James and forward Udonis Haslem's surprise contribution.

Now, the plan is to do what they have done all postseason: protect their home court.

While the Bulls, Dallas Mavericks and Oklahoma City Thunder - the remaining playoff teams - sputtered at times at home, the Heat have proven invincible.

They are 6-0 at AmericanAirlines Arena in the playoffs, sweeping games against the Philadelphia 76ers and Boston Celtics in the previous two rounds.

The Bulls, who held the league's best record, have lost two road games during the postseason.

Still, the Heat are expecting a fight, considering the winner will have an advantage in the series.

They spent the past three days talking about how playing at home has its perks, but shouldn't make them feel more comfortable.

"We're not worried about anything," forward Chris Bosh said.

"We just know that we have to defend our home court and that we have to go out there and execute. We're in front of our fans. We've had success here. It's all about us trying to get a hold of this series. It's up for grabs right now. We have a small advantage of being at home right now and we have to take the opportunity to do that."

It won't be easy for the Heat. Consecutive defeats by the Bulls have been hard to come by.

They were one of two teams not to lose more than two consecutive games during the regular season, joining the Boston Celtics.

Chicago hasn't lost back-to-back games since Feb. 5 and 7, falling to the Golden State Warriors and Portland Trail Blazers.

So one of the streaks will end in Game 3, but neither team is concerned with them. They prefer to focus on the task at hand, which is handling business on the court instead of worrying about statistics and outside factors.

"Now, we have two forces going against each other," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said.

"I think that it's probably irrelevant. The two teams are so competitive with good road records. They've proven they can win on the road.

"It'll still come down to those keys that we've been talking about the last two games. We can't take our home record, our home energy for granted. We have to come out ready for the mental and physical grind."

Read more: http://www.kansascity.com/2011/05/21/2892424/heat-looking-to-stay-perfect-at.html#ixzz1O1gkA38h
