For as much as a break since Wednesday¡¦s Game 2 has taken a lot of the momentum ¡Xand a lot of the buzz ¡X away from a series that¡¦s tied 1-1, it has allowed a lot of bumps and bruises to heal.

And that just means the teams can go at each ¡X hard ¡X with fresh legs.

¡§I think when you see all the ice packs on everybody after the game and see guys labouring to get on the bus, you see how physical of a series it is,¡¨ Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said as the teams regrouped before the resumption of play. ¡§Fortunately, we were able to have some days to recuperate. But our guys, they¡¦re not shying away from it. Neither team is. Both teams have built these habits for the entire season.¡¨

While this is a series replete with stars ¡X it doesn¡¦t get much more luminous than LeBron James and Dwyane Wade on one team and Derrick Rose on the other ¡X the first two games have been marked by a kind of unrelenting, physical defence that¡¦s denied the kind of dominance you might expect from that trio.

In Game 1, the Bulls blanketed James and Wade with length, aggression and intensity, never letting them get untracked in a relatively easy 103-82 Chicago victory.

The Heat responded in kind in Game 2, stifling Rose and closing down any lanes to the basket, holding Chicago to 75 points in a 10-point victory.

Neither game could be considered ¡§pretty¡¨ at all and that¡¦s probably going to be how the rest of the series plays out.

¡§They¡¦re very physical and I¡¦m sure both teams, between games, are in the ice tub, trying to get their bodies ready for the next one,¡¨ said Wade.

The Bulls have spent the last two days trying to figure out where their offence went after Game 1. Rose was just 7-for-23 from the floor in the Game 2 loss and, as always with the Bulls, someone has to pick up the slack if Rose gets shut down. If no one does, their chances are greatly diminished.

In Game 1, they got a huge boost off the bench from Taj Gibson, but the Heat nullified him in Game 2 and sent Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau scurrying to find a way to get his team¡¦s offence in gear.

¡§If you¡¦re not shooting well, the defence sits in the lane,¡¨ Thibodeau told reporters in Chicago. ¡§They¡¦re a great help team. That¡¦s why it¡¦s so important to play with pace. Make them miss, rebound and outlet and get into the open floor.

¡§The defence is spread out and now you can get into the paint, get into seams and either score or create easy offence for others. And we have to look to post the ball more.¡¨

But it¡¦s easier said than done, especially with James being able to roam a lot on defence and with the Heat able to use different players on Rose so he doesn¡¦t get comfortable attacking the same primary defender.

The defence on both sides has turned the series into a grind and it¡¦s going to be a test of wills and physical toughness the rest of the way.

Contrasted to the rather free-flowing Western Conference final between Dallas and Oklahoma City, the Heat-Bulls series is a wrestling match rather than a track meet.

But with the stakes so high, no one¡¦s complaining.

¡§We¡¦ve proven we¡¦re an aggressive, attacking, physical defensive team that rebounds the basketball,¡¨ said Spoelstra. ¡§It¡¦s not something we¡¦re trying to reinvent right now, during the Eastern Conference finals. And they¡¦ve proven to be the same.

