This Miami Heat reserve forward¡¦s name sounds like that of some strangely combined Greek-Muslim deity.

His first name reminds one of Adonis, the Greek god of youth and manly beauty. Udonis sounds like some Herculean model for a high-energy, muscle-building food supplement.

His return to action might be the turning point in the Eastern Conference finals. He already has been revered as the main reason the Heat beat the Bulls 85-75 on Wednesday to even the series 1-1.

Haslem, who missed 69 regular-season games with a foot injury and had played only nine minutes in the playoffs, came off the bench to contribute 13 points, five rebounds, two assists, a blocked shot, a steal and tremendous energy.

The 6-8, 235-pounder might have become the Heat¡¦s new sixth man. He might even replace 6-9, 245-pound center Joel Anthony in the starting lineup and tempt coach Erik Spoelstra to make the 6-10, 235-pound Chris Bosh a high-post center. That could push Bulls center Joakim Noah (6-11, 232 pounds) out of the box to contest Bosh¡¦s perimeter jumpers.

In short, the Bulls¡¦ task of advancing to the NBA Finals suddenly has become a mightier one.

Haslem, a Miami native, signed with the Heat as an undrafted free agent in 2003. He had led Florida to four consecutive NCAA tournament appearances. Before that, he led Miami High School to back-to-back state championships in 1997 and 1998 before the ¡¦98 title was forfeited because he was ruled ineligible for violating residency rules.

Last summer, when the Heat lured free agents LeBron James and Bosh to join their own superstar free agent, Dwyane Wade, everyone was talking about the team¡¦s Big Three. But I always was looking at a Big Four with Haslem in the mix.

In his first seven seasons, he averaged 10 points and 8.1 rebounds per game and was a significant component in the Heat¡¦s 2006 NBA championship. In Game 1 of the first-round playoff series against the Bulls that year, Haslem was ejected when he angrily threw his mouthpiece at referee Joey Crawford while protesting a non-call. The Heat won that game 111-106 behind Wade and Shaquille O¡¦Neal and eliminated the Bulls in six.

Then last summer, when he became a free agent, Haslem gave up offers that would have paid him some $10 million more to re-sign with the Heat. But injuries sidelined him ¡X until now. 

