Dwyane Wade had the chance to join his hometown team.

That opportunity passed quickly last summer when the former Marquette star decided to stay in Miami rather than signing with the Chicago Bulls as a free agent.

Now the Heat's star trio of Wade, LeBron James and Chris Bosh is trying to knock out the Bulls by responding to the physical play in the Eastern Conference finals.

The series resumes Sunday night in Miami with Game 3 after the Heat evened the best-of-seven set at 1-1 with an 85-75 victory at the United Center on Wednesday.

A knockdown defensive battle has marked the first two games, and that type of gritty game is expected to continue throughout the series.

The Heat closed down the lane on Bulls point guard and league most valuable player Derrick Rose, who struggled in Game 2.

Miami has used multiple defenders against Rose, including James, Wade, Mario Chalmers and Mike Bibby.

"We got that one (on the road) that we needed so far," Wade said after the Heat's victory. "Now we go home and we've got to take care of business.

"This team here (Chicago) is like us. They can win at home and on the road. Game 3 is very big for us to come out and protect the home floor."

Wade contributed 24 points and nine rebounds to the Heat's victory and played an efficient game as he hit 8 of 16 shots from the field and 8 of 10 free throws.

And his activity on the defensive end of the floor helped frustrate the Bulls' offense.

Chicago dominated Game 1 with its hustling defense but Miami showed it was no slouch in that department by limiting Chicago to 10 fourth-quarter points in Game 2.

"His handle is so good that it's tough," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said of defending Rose. "So you have to try to meet him with athleticism, make it tough for him when he gets to the rim."

It's fun to speculate what might have happened if Wade or James had decided to team up with Rose.

But James and Bosh wanted to join their Olympic teammate in Miami in bid to win a championship ring, something Wade accomplished with the Heat in 2006.

And the Bulls exceeded all expectations by winning a league-best 62 games under first-year coach Tom Thibodeau, who gained the respect of his players and stressed a lockdown defensive approach.

"It's a crazy business," said Bulls reserve center Kurt Thomas, who played for the Milwaukee Bucks during the 2009-'10 season. "There are no hard feelings about it.

"It's free agency. You just try to find the best pieces and put them together and I think that's what we did here."

The Bulls signed free-agent forward Carlos Boozer to provide an offensive complement to the defensive-minded Joakim Noah. Forward Taj Gibson emerged as a reliable performer off the bench.

Early in the season when Noah was out with a thumb injury, Thomas stepped into the starting lineup and helped keep the Bulls on target.

In the playoffs Thomas has been a spectator while Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau has used young center Omer Asik to back up Noah.

Asik made an incredible block on a shot by Wade in Wednesday's game, a play that left both players bloodied.

Thibodeau was not expecting an easy ride to the NBA Finals just because the Bulls dominated the opening game of the series.

"You're playing the same team over and over with a lot at stake," Thibodeau said. "There's going to be aggressive play. You have to be a well-balanced team. You have to concentrate on body position.

"You have to minimize giving up easy points. If a team gets to the free throw line a lot, it puts you in a bind."

The Heat went 18 of 24 at the foul line in Game 2 while the Bulls had 26 attempts but converted just 16.

Udonis Haslem, a strong rebounding forward, provided some toughness the Heat desperately needed and scored 13 points while adding five rebounds in 23 minutes in Game 2.

He missed nearly the entire season with a foot injury but has returned in time to make a difference.

"We've been missing him all year and no one really talks about that, about what UD means to this team," Wade said. "For him to come out and really get into the fight, help us rebound the ball, it just shows a lot to his determination and his heart."

Gibson said the Bulls will respond to their defeat.

"We still have to do our job," Gibson said. "It's really going to come down to who is going to have the toughness and the heart, and hit first.

"This is playoff basketball. It's physical. Guys are banging and we're playing for a championship. We've seen each other all year long. It's no time to be friends.

"We're going out there for one goal and guys are really fighting."

