It・s a beautiful day anytime Korver can shoot poorly and not have to talk about it. But Friday was a different story after Korver put in extra time after practice at the Berto Center in Deerfield. One -reporter stopped him. Then -another joined in. Then another. Suddenly he drew television cameras and a crowd.

The only thing worse than being in a shooting slump is talking about it. But Korver has been around long enough to know it・s inevitable. He shot 1-for-7 overall and 1-for-5 on three-pointers in the Bulls・ 85-75 loss to the Miami Heat in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals Wednesday.

After hitting 17 of 30 three-point attempts (57 percent) in the Bulls・ first eight playoff games, Korver is 3-for-15 in their last five. He・s 1-for-10 in their last two losses.

．．It・s frustrating,・・ he said. ．．I・ve been here before. It・ll get better.・・

It usually does with Korver. He hit 47 percent of his threes (23-for-49) in the previous two postseasons with the Utah Jazz. Last year against the Los Angeles Lakers, he was in a 3-for-13 slump before going 5-for-5 in a one-point loss in Game 3.

．．It・s easy to get down on yourself. You just have to forget about it and move on,・・ he said. ．．You・ve got to think next shot, next game. This series is still very, very young. There・s going to be a lot more shots taken. To focus on the ones you・ve missed is just going to hurt you later on.・・

Korver is in a tough spot in the playoffs. He averages fewer than seven three-pointers and 18 minutes per game. He never gets a chance to warm up. If he misses his first shot or two, he・s ．．cold.・・

But Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau isn・t going to pull him just because of a cold streak.

．．He・s proven he・s an excellent shooter,・・ Thibodeau said. ．．If they・re his shots and he・s open, we want him to take them. And there are other things he can do to help us. He spaces the floor. He・s an excellent passer. He・s a very good team defender.・・

And when Dwyane Wade is guarding him, Korver can run Wade ragged around screens.

．．I never claimed to be the fastest guy. But I will run all day,・・ said Korver, who often looks like he・s running an obstacle course trying to use a screen to get open. ．．I like running off screens. It・s what I do. Whatever strategy we want to go with, that・s fine with me.・・

