It was that after the Bulls overpowered the Heat in Game 1 and it¡¦s the same thing after Miami¡¦s win in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Finals. People love to draw conclusions and give instant proclamations after every single game and thus such was the case Wednesday night after the finish of Game 2. After Game 1 it was all about how great the Bulls were and how awful the Heat is. Following Game 2 it was a total reversal, all the praise going to Miami¡¦s players while all the blame and criticism was centered on the Bulls. Everyone needs to relax and realize that this will be a long series with more momentum shifts than Lindsay Lohan¡¦s court visits.

Wednesday night was not pretty and even the biggest of Bulls fans would have to agree with that. What worked in Game 1 did not in Game 2. The three point shot was not falling. Defense was not as sharp despite holding Miami to 85 points. The bench did not produce the way it did in the first game, yet it still outscored Miami¡¦s bench 20-17. In Game 1 the advantage was 28-15in Bulls¡¦ favor. The shooting percentage dropped from 44% to an abysmal 32% and free throw percentage dipped from 85% in Game 1 to 61%. So many different guys stepped up in the first game and everyone had an off game last night. This can¡¦t happen again, can it?

The odds are on our side because this Bulls team has not lost three games in a row all year long but they also haven¡¦t played against an opponent such as the Heat three times in a row. Now, I¡¦m not saying that it is impossible for this team to lose three games in a row, especially when they struggle like they did in the last game. The Bulls simply need to play better, no other way to say it. There are numerous things that need to be addressed more than others.

First, Derrick Rose has to play better. It is hard to criticize Derrick, he is the MVP and he does so much for the team but he deserves some blame this time around. He shot a bad percentage from the field (7 of 23) and had some very bad shots late in the game. The Heat defense stifled him and he couldn¡¦t find an answer for once. He needs to penetrate more and if the shots are not available have two people commit to him and then dish it out to his teammates. In my opinion he needs to speed up the tempo and use his blazing speed to make everyone else on defense uncomfortable. Also, Mike Bibby¡¦s lack of speed need to be exploited more.

Second, a secondary scorer needs to appear out of somewhere. I don¡¦t care who it is but someone else aside from Derrick needs to step up. Preferably, Carlos Boozer should be that guy but it is pretty clear that he can not be counted on night in and night out. Therefore, it will most likely be Luol Deng and even he needs to contribute with more than 13 points like he did in Game 2. Deng had a very effective first half but went completely missing in the second half. That can¡¦t happen again if the Bulls want to escape the South Beach trip with at least one victory.

Third, the defense and the intensity need to be upped by several notches. The heroics of Game 1 need to be duplicated and while I¡¦m not expecting two monster jams by Taj Gibson again they would certainly be welcomed by this Bulls fan. The aggressive and suffocating defense needs to return tonight and return with vengeance. Anything else will simply not do.

The Bulls have to weather the early storm that is most likely going to happen. The crowd will be into it (assuming they arrived on time of course) and if the Bulls have a good first quarter that will neutralize the crowd noise. This game is crucial and if the Bulls can somehow steal this one then the pressure shifts completely on Miami again. The home court advantage is no more and it¡¦s up to the team to regain it. That is done with intensity, defensive pressure and the ability to limit the turnovers. If the Bulls do all that then we will be all talking about a victory tomorrow. If they don¡¦t, however, then¡K

