The Chicago Bulls and Miami Heat collide in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference Finals from the United Center.

With the leagues MVP and coach of the year at their side, the Bulls wrapped up their series against the Atlanta Hawks in six games and enter the Eastern Conference finals for the first time since 1998, when Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen were on their way to a second three-peat. In what was a tough fought series, the top seeded Bulls showed their worth in Game 6, smashing the Hawks 93-73 in a well rounded team effort.

Led by their two superstars in Dwayne Wade and Lebron James, the Heat advanced to the Conference finals after taking down the Boston Celtics in five games. For Lebron James, Game 5 against Boston last season was one he would like to forget. However, this season was a much different story as he scored 33 points, while Dwayne Wade added 34, including the last 10 points in regulation, as the Heat went on a 16-0 to close out the games and the series.

The Bulls are 12-2-2 ATS in their last 16 home games vs. a team with a winning road record and 4-1 ATS in their last five games as a favorite. The Heat on the other hand are 7-2 ATS in their last 9 road games, but 0-6 ATS in their last 6 playoff games as an underdog. Head to head, the Bulls are 3-1-1 ATS in the last five meetings in Chicago while the home team is 5-2-1 ATS in the last eight meetings. The underdog is 3-0-1 ATS in the last four meetings while the under is 10-3 in the last 13 meetings and 6-1 in the last seven meetings in Chicago.

Miami proved in their series against Boston that regular season results aren't a good indication of what to expect come playoff time. The Bulls did win the three contests against the Heat in the regular season, however two of those games were in Chicago and Lebron James was missing for one of those. Even though the Bulls looked shaky in their opening round games against Indiana and Atlanta, I like their chances of taking this one out. In reality, you could make a good case for both teams here. Me, I like the Bulls to take out Game 1 in a close one....