Miami, FL (Sporting Alert) ¡X The Miami Heat and Chicago Bulls will both be hoping to come away with a victory in Game 3 of their Eastern Conference finals on Sunday.

Eastern Conference Finals Game 3 TV: 8:30 p.m. ET, TNT | Also Watch Live Streaming Coverage

After losing to the Bulls on the road in Game 1, LeBron James and Heat won Game 2 in a physical encounter on road to level the series at 1-1 on Wednesday.

Both teams are expected to have another physical battle in Miami and Heat coach Erik Spoelstra was happy his side got a few days rest.

¡§Fortunately, we were able to have some days to recuperate,¡¨ Spoelstra said. ¡§Our guys, they¡¦re not shying away from it.

¡§Neither team is. Both teams have built these habits for the entire season. We¡¦ve proven we¡¦re an aggressive, attacking, physical defense that rebounds the basketball.

¡§¡K They¡¦ve proven to be the same. So you have two things colliding into each other.¡¨

Miami used an impressive defensive performance in the fourth quarter to take the 85-75 victory ¡V on a night when James and Dwyane Wade rebounded and scored efficiently.

¡§This is a very physical series,¡¨ Wade said. ¡§This is a grind-out series. You look at our series compared to the other series, it¡¦s night and day between the styles.

¡§Very physical and I¡¦m sure both teams in between games are in the icetub, trying to get their body ready for the next one.¡¨

The league¡¦s MVP and Bulls star point guard Derrick Rose expects the same from the hosts, who will also call on Chris Bosh, who scored 30 points in the opener and rejuvenated Udonis Haslem.

¡§This is going to be a crazy game, where I think they¡¦re going to have a lot of confidence,¡¨ said Rose.

¡§Some way, somehow, we¡¦ve just got to come up with this win no matter how we get it.

¡§We¡¦ve just got to have more intensity than them and play way more aggressive.¡¨

Chicago will be hoping the likes of Taj Gibson and Carlos Boozer¡K.among others, who were part of the ¡§low-energy offense (and) low-energy defense¡¨ in Game 2, can find their form Sunday night.