MEXICO CITY ¡X Mexico said it would press the candidacy of its central banker Agustin Carstens for the post of IMF chief as it won the endorsement of Spain, but said the outlook for the key finance post remains uncertain.

Mexican Foreign Minister Patricia Espinosa appeared at a joint press conference with his Spanish counterpart Trinidad Jimenez, who noted that the eurozone country will support Carstens based on earlier commitments with other Latin American countries.

Espinosa said she had spoken with the foreign ministers of Brazil, Australia, Thailand, Peru, Paraguay and Uruguay, and hoped to talk soon with Japan.

The case of Carstens marks a major push for an emerging market chief of the International Monetary Fund after a long tradition of a European leader at the IMF, with a US national at the helm of the World Bank.

The moves come as the organization seeks to fill the managing director's post vacated by Dominique Strauss-Kahn after the Frenchman was arrested and charged with sexual assault in New York.

In Brazil, a source close to President Dilma Rousseff said Mexican President Felipe Calderon called Tuesday to support Carsten's candidacy.

The source said Brazil would wait for the full picture before endorsing a candidate.

Spain shares a seat at the International Monetary Fund with Mexico, Venezuela and four smaller Central American nations, Finance Minister Elena Salgado noted earlier in Madrid.

As a result of the alliance, if one of the countries sharing the seat presents a candidate, the others must vote for that person, she said, even if Spain represents 35 percent of the votes among those countries.

But "the position of Spain is that the French minister (Finance Minister Lagarde) is an excellent candidate and it is she whom we would like to see in the (IMF) post."

Carstens, 52, the governor of the Bank of Mexico and former Mexican finance minister, is a declared will face French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, who has the backing of other large European countries.

Lagarde was in Brazil on Monday to press her candidacy.

Carstens is due in Brazil on Wednesday for a meeting with Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega and a session Thursday with Brazil's central bank chief, Alexandre Tombini.

The IMF is due to publish a full list of candidates by June 17. The final selection is expected to be announced by June 30.

The executive board, whose members represent a country or a group of countries, is aiming to select the next chief by consensus, but could resort to a vote.

