Lagarde vows speedy IMF reforms 

French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, the front-runner candidate to lead the International Monetary Fund (IMF), on Tuesday reiterated her commitment to speedy reforms in order to give emerging nations a greater say.

"The main priority ahead is to continue and deepen reforms" in running the IMF, Lagarde said after a working lunch with her Brazilian counterpart Guido Mantega and Brazilian central bank chief Alexandre Tombini, according to AFP.

"If I was elected, I would make sure that the diversity of members is represented at all levels," she said at a news conference in Brasilia, the first stop of an international tour taking in Brazil, China, India and "certain African countries."

She added that the fund "must continue the reform process it began under Dominique Strauss-Kahn."

Chen Fengying, director of the Institute of Global Economics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times that Lagarde's visits showed her determination to represent the whole world, not just the EU. 

"Brazil and the other BRICS have not agreed on a candidate, much less one with the broad support Lagarde has drummed up so far," Chen said. "Emerging markets do need more power in the management of the institution. However, the BRICS cannot reach the sky in one single bound."

Chen added that China, or other emerging powers, could seek a guarantee that the next managing director would hail from a BRICS nation.

John Lipsky, the IMF's No. 2, will leave at the end of his term in August but will advise the fund through the next G-20 summit in November.

As the only declared rival to Lagarde in the race, Mexican central bank chief Agustin Carstens signaled a more hardline stance on bailed-out countries should he break the stranglehold Europe has held on the post since World War II.

"It would be appropriate to have a non-European because a pair of fresh eyes could see European problems with greater objectivity," Carstens told El Pais in a visit to Spain as part of a tour to campaign for the job.

Chen said that the US is the biggest actual obstacle for Lagarde to be the new leader:

However, in view of the regional balance at the IMF management level, Carstens has little chance of victory.

South African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Tuesday that the IMF should move toward a democratic system to choose the institution's next leader, Reuters reported.