PARIS¡XInternational Monetary Fund candidate Christine Lagarde will visit China and India next week, as she continues a tour of emerging economies in her bid to become the next head of the International Monetary Fund.

The visit comes on the heels of a 36-hour trip to Brazil this week where the French finance minister met senior finance officials as she seeks to win the backing of large developing countries. Although her meeting schedule hasn't been finalized, Ms. Lagarde is expected to meet senior officials in China and India also, including Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, China's central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan and China's Finance Minister Xie Xuren, according to a person familiar with the situation.

Ms. Lagarde flies to India on Monday night and is set to hold a press conference in New Delhi after her meetings with Indian officials. She will arrive in Beijing on Wednesday morning and hold a press conference there on Thursday morning after meeting Chinese officials.

Ms. Lagarde has emerged as the leading contender for the IMF chief job, having already secured the backing of key European capitals. But large emerging nations have argued that the selection process should be "open and transparent" and many have questioned the clubby arrangement under which a European runs the IMF and an American the World Bank. Mexico's central bank governor Agustin Carstens is also a candidate.

Ms. Lagarde told leaders in Brazil's capital this week that she would press ahead with the changes that in recent years have enabled Brazil, China, India, and other big developing countries to have greater say in the fund's management. "The IMF belongs to all its member nations," said Ms. Lagarde.

Brazil stopped short of endorsing the former corporate lawyer but analysts believe it ultimately will side with Ms. Lagarde in the absence of a consensus candidate from the developing world. China hasn't shown its hand, though French government spokesman Francois Baroin said last month that the country was "favorable to the appointment of Christine Lagarde."

The U.S. also hasn't endorsed a candidate and has argued for an open, transparent and merit-based selection process.

The IMF succession race was blown wide open after the arrest¡Xand subsequent resignation¡Xof Dominique Strauss-Kahn on charges of attempted rape of a housekeeper in a New York hotel. The hastiness of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's departure, coupled with a lack of unity among emerging countries over the possibility of a sole nominee, all but guaranteed that a European would again emerge as the leading candidate. Europe is especially sensitive to the possibility of losing control of the top job at a time when the continent is grappling with worsening debt woes.