Carstens defends slow momentum of IMF candidacy

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/fe2f7a90-8ca3-11e0-beca-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1OHyOO6g7

Agustin Carstens, the Mexican central bank governor, has defended the lukewarm response of emerging markets to his efforts to head the International Monetary Fund, saying the countries had not had time to co-ordinate.

：I think the main reason is because we emerging markets were not prepared to deal with the sudden departure of Dominique Strauss-Kahn,； Mr Carstens told the Financial Times on Wednesday in Brasilia, where he met Brazil・s finance minister Guido Mantega. ：We don・t have a co-ordination mechanism as [do the]) Europeans.；

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/fe2f7a90-8ca3-11e0-beca-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1OHyPrlac

The so-called Bric nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China seemed to signal that they might be prepared to battle the IMF・s tradition of appointing a European chief when they issued a joint statement last month calling for the process to be merit-based and not linked to nationality.

But the group has not publicly supported Mr Carstens, who has emerged as the only serious candidate for the job to challenge Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister.

European countries have publicly supported Ms Lagarde, which Mr Carstens said was inconsistent with a merit-based selection process.

Some have argued that a European is needed to sort out the Eurozone・s debt troubles but Mr Carstens has countered that an outsider could take tougher decisions.

Mr Carstens, who will carry his campaign from Brazil to the other Bric countries in the coming days, said countries should not make a choice until the nomination process finished on June 10.

：It・s more a surprise that some other countries have [already] made up their mind than that the Brics and other emerging markets are not [yet] making up their own mind,； he said.

There has been speculation that Brazil and other Latin American countries have withheld support because of Mexico・s close political and economic ties with the US.

Mr Carstens・ career path as a University of Chicago-trained economist and a former deputy managing director of the IMF have led some to believe he would be too orthodox to pursue the internal reforms of the IMF favoured by Brazil and emerging markets. Mr Carstens rejects these claims.

：I have a very good working relationship with the US, and at end of the day the US is the main trading partner of Mexico. The take-away is not that we don・t care for emerging markets [nor does it mean] that we are not an emerging market,； he said.