Brazil welcomed the Mexican central bank chief's candidacy for the IMF's top job as a step forward for emerging economies but stopped short of offering an endorsement, saying it needed more time to decide which candidate to back.

Agustin Carstens is in Brazil on the third leg of a global tour to drum up support for his underdog candidacy to lead the Washington-based International Monetary Fund against French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, who kicked off her own worldwide campaign in the South American country on Monday.

While Brazil has been among the loudest voices calling for more say for emerging markets in global economic affairs, government sources have said the country is leaning toward Lagarde because she is seen as having more clout within the global lender to push through reforms.

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/business/world-business/brazil-welcomes-carstens-imf-bid-20110602-1fh7v.html#ixzz1OI6RkFta


"Emerging economies are under-represented in the fund's leadership, especially Latin American countries," Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said at a news conference with Carstens in the capital, Brasilia.

Mantega added that it was important to have a candidate from an emerging economy for a job that has traditionally been held by a European, and that it would be a step forward if the next IMF chief was chosen on merit rather than nationality.

Backing from the region's largest economy would be a major boost for Carstens, who said he had received expressions of support from much of Latin America despite having no official backing yet.

He said he had a similar agenda to Lagarde but was better qualified to run the fund because he has more experience and better knowledge of the institution.

"It is an agenda that is broadly shared. A very important difference is the capacity to lead. I know the institution from 360 degrees," he said, recalling his posts there as deputy managing director and executive director, as well as his 30 years as a civil servant and policy maker.

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/business/world-business/brazil-welcomes-carstens-imf-bid-20110602-1fh7v.html#ixzz1OI6TVOUD
