Mexico's Carstens Says He'll Stay At Central Bank If IMF Bid Fails 

BUENOS AIRES (Dow Jones)--Bank of Mexico Gov. Agustin Carstens said Friday that he will stay at the central bank if his bid to lead the International Monetary Fund doesn't succeed.

"I've already done the No.2 spot [at the IMF]. I would rather stay in my country and help out. I'm very happy at the central bank," he said in an interview.

Carstens, 52, visited Argentina as part of a multi-country tour that includes Brazil, China and Japan to build support for his campaign to become managing director of the IMF.

While developing nations have long demanded a greater voice in the IMF, none of the most influential developing countries--China, India and Brazil--have voiced support for Carstens or floated their own candidates. Meanwhile, Europe is backing French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde.

"I think that if there were a clearer, more transparent process more people would be enticed to jump in and participate," he said.

Observers say that Carstens' reputation as a market- friendly economist might not sit well with countries like Argentina and Brazil, which have pursued interventionist policies like capital controls that Mexico has so far opted not to adopt.

Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez had long vilified the IMF, whose free-market policies in the 1990s, she says, crippled Argentina's industrial sector and contributed to its $100 billion sovereign debt default in 2001.

The IMF and Argentina have also been at odds for years over the latter's refusal to submit to a periodic review of its economic policies, a so-called Article IV surveillance consultation, that is required of all IMF member nations.

Fernandez regularly bashes so-called orthodox economic policies and technocrats whom she blames for Argentina's long history of economic crisis.

Asked how he plans to win over Argentina, Carstens said that developing countries, especially Latin America, are underrepresented at the fund. His experience as a central banker and finance minister in Mexico and as the deputy managing director at the IMF make him well suited to lead the institution, he added.

"Even Argentina in recent years has had an outstanding record so something right is being done in this economy. So I think the Fund needs to understand it and needs to support it," he said. 