SAO PAULO, Brazil¡XMexico's central bank Governor Agustin Carstens acknowledged that the early days of his bid to become the first non-European head of the International Monetary Fund haven't been encouraging, but said he would garner broader support during a multicountry tour that includes Brazil, China, Japan and other nations.

In interview here, where he lobbied senior Brazilian officials for support, Mr. Carstens said Europe's debt crisis is more reason that the IMF's next managing director should come from outside Europe¡Xcontradicting the argument often made by supporters of the favorite in the race, French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde.

"I have the advantage of bringing a fresh pair of eyes to the situation, the possibility of supplying fresher, and more frank advice," Mr. Carstens said. "More frank because if you are not from the region you can often speak more freely."

It is a message the 52-year-old former IMF deputy managing director is taking on the road to various nations on a lonely campaign to rally support for his bid to break the decades-old unwritten rule that a European runs the IMF, while an American heads the World Bank.

So far only Uruguay has publicly supported Mr. Carstens's bid. Aside from Mexico itself, none of the biggest developing nations¡XChina, India or Brazil¡Xhave expressly backed him.

Meantime, Europe has rallied around Ms. Lagarde¡Xwho visited Brazil last week and has a leg up on Mr. Carstens in her own tour of key global capitals. The IMF board is set to choose a successor this month for Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned in May and faces rape charges in New York.

The U.S., the biggest contributor to the IMF, hasn't backed a candidate, but U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has called both Ms. Lagarde and Mr. Carstens "very credible."

Mr. Carstens said Washington "welcomed my participation" in the race.

Observers said Mr. Carstens's lack of explicit emerging-market support can be explained by the huge differences in economic interests among developing world countries and by the unwillingness of some qualified candidates to step forward at a time when Ms. Lagarde seems to have the top IMF spot all but sewn up. Two major emerging markets, Brazil and China, for example, haven't put forth candidates.

Mr. Carstens said that even if his bid for the job falls short, it will help pave the way toward a more open, merit-based selection process by making non-European candidates a regular presence in the nomination process¡Xlong the demand of the IMF's emerging nation members. "If we don't stand up for what we have called for, we will never get there," he said.

Building consensus won't be easy.

Take Brazil. Most observers might view Mr. Carstens' University of Chicago economics Phd and long career at the IMF as a positive. But some in Brazil's left leaning policy establishment view Mr. Carstens¡Xa Chicago Cubs fan¡Xas too linked to the U.S. and the free market brand of economics taught at the university there.

"I went to the University of Chicago, but it's not a religion," Mr. Carstens said. For example, he said he supported Brazil's use of capital controls to deal with huge foreign investment flows¡Xmeasures not considered economic orthodoxy.

Mr. Carstens said he found Brazilian officials "sympathetic" to his candidacy and believed support would grow if leaders focused on his resume, and not his nationality.

"I have a chance if they compare my record," Mr. Carstens said. "The essence of the issue is that the Fund preserves its legitimacy. The only way to guarantee that is to ensure that the best person for the job runs the institution."