RAZIL ¡V Agustin Carstens, Mexico¡¦s central bank governor said that developing countries would violate the paradigm in carrying the name of the leader of the IMF¡¦s Strauss-Kahn to replace. He said that if candidates from developing countries, mainly from Latin America, managed to occupy prestigious positions in the IMF, then it will be a victory not only for the countries of Latin America, but for all developing countries. It is carried to break the dominance of Europeans in the IMF¡¦s leadership since the agency was founded in 1945. In addition, Carstens also considered, falling credibility of the European leaders to replace Dominique Strauss-Kahn.

European leadership in the IMF pointed out as a form of tacit agreement, while the United States held the leadership at the World Bank. ¡§It is clear that for now, they (the Europeans) are unable to get into a situation where they have full credibility. So they need to make more effort,¡¨ said Carstens was quoted as saying by the AFP on Friday (06/03/2011).

Carstens itself is approaching a number of officials in developing countries to support his candidacy in the leadership position after the resignation of IMF¡¦s Strauss-Kahn to fight charges of sexual assault. He said European countries since the founding of the IMF was never in doubt in creating financial programs and solutions to Latin American countries and in developing countries. ¡§Why should not one be put in charge of Latin America to help solve the economic problems of Europe?¡¨ he asked. Comments are flung by looking at a number of economic conditions in European countries such as Greece was under strong pressure of debt, creditors and lower ratings Moody¡¦s for reform is difficult to balance finances in exchange for a rescue package of fresh and stability of the eurozone members Portugal, Ireland, and Spanish.

Carstens said the euro zone countries facing financial crisis must adopt credible programs to deal with crises that could be supported by the EU and the IMF. Carstens self nomination to face opposition from European countries, because many who want to continue the tradition of giving to one of them as head of the IMF. Another candidate is the French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde is supported by European countries. There are other potential candidates from developing countries, namely South Africa¡¦s former finance minister Trevor Manuel.