BEIJING, June 3 (Xinhuanet) --Mexico's candidate for IMF chief, Central Bank chief Agustin Carstens, says he'll push for more power to emerging economies. He made the comments at the start of a short tour of Brazil, hoping to win crucial backing for his bid to lead the global lender.

Carstens is in Brazil on the third leg of a global tour to drum up support for his candidacy to lead the Washington-based IMF. So far, he's up against French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, who kicked off her own worldwide campaign in Brazil earlier this week.

While Brazil has been among the loudest voices calling for more say for emerging markets in global economic affairs, government sources say the country is leaning toward Lagarde because she is seen as having more clout within the IMF to push through reforms.

Carstens arrived in the capital Brasilia and met with Finance Minister Guido Mantega. Mantega welcomed his candidacy, but said Brazil needed more time to decide which candidate to back.

Mantega added, it was important to have a candidate from an emerging economy for a job that has traditionally been held by a European, and that it would be a step forward if the next IMF chief was chosen on merit rather than nationality.

Carstens says he's received expressions of support from much of Latin America, despite having no official backing yet.

He says emerging economies should have more decision-making power inside the IMF.

Agustin Carstens, Mexican Central Bank Chief said "The moral weight and power that emerging countries have due to their management of economic policies in the past few years would be recognized inside an institution where countries like Mexico, Brazil, China and South Africa have a bigger say and could influence the policies of the International Monetary Fund."

The Brazilian Finance Minister also said that the fund should mirror the G20 group.

Guido Mantega, Brazilian Finance Minister said "The monetary fund cannot regress. It cannot go back to what it used to be -- a representative of the G7, of the G8. It has to be in tune with the G20, which nowadays represents developed and emerging countries."

During Lagarde's visit to Brazil this week, she told the country what it wanted to hear -- that she would push reforms to give emerging economies more say in IMF decision-making. The board has a June 30th deadline for picking a successor.