Alistair Darling backs Christine Lagarde for head of IMF

Former chancellor Alistair Darling has endorsed France's Christine Lagarde as his first choice to head the International Monetary Fund, in a further sign of his former boss Gordon Brown's failure to rally support.

Talking to the Observer, Darling said that France's finance minister was the best candidate to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn.

"In the field of those who have declared so far, I think she is the best," said Darling, who as chancellor had tense relations with Brown. "I knew her throughout my three years as chancellor. One of the advantages she has is that having worked in the United States as a lawyer for many years she is able to see the world through American eyes in a way someone based in continental Europe cannot do. At the same time she is from the eurozone.

"She has an easygoing manner and she gets on with people exceptionally well. I remember a meeting of Ecofin [EU finance ministers] dealing with the Greek crisis last May and it was her determination that the meeting would not end before there was an agreement, which meant there was an agreement.

"She is easy for us to work with but on issues where it was France against the others she was French to the core. She is no easy touch."

The current chancellor, George Osborne, has also praised Lagarde as a strong candidate for the job after Downing Street made it clear that it would not be supporting Brown.

Brown has not formally thrown his hat into the ring and has preferred to bide his time to see if support would gather behind him.

Crucially Germany has also come in behind Lagarde, effectively dashing the hopes of its own former finance minister Peer Steinbruck, and former Bundesbank head Axel Weber.Chancellor Angela Merkel said Lagarde was "distinguished" and "very experienced", while finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, told the Bild on Sunday newspaper that she was "outstandingly qualified" and "extremely respected and appreciated in the entire financial world".

Mr Strauss-Kahn was the fourth Frenchman to have held the IMF's top job.

He is in New York on bail awaiting trial for sexual assault and attempted rape ¡V charges he denies.
