Lagarde Set to Begin IMF Charm Offensive in Brazil 

PARIS¡XFrench Finance Minister Christine Lagarde said she will fly to Brazil Sunday night and also plans to visit the Middle East as she kicks off her global tour to rally support from the emerging world for her bid to lead the International Monetary Fund.

Brazil is to be her first stop as it was the first country to have invited her, Ms. Lagarde said in an interview with French radio Europe 1. She told The Wall Street Journal last week that Brazil, China and India were must stops on a global campaigning tour to secure broad backing to be the first woman to lead the international institution.

"I have chosen to visit emerging countries because they have expressed concern and frustration," said Ms. Lagarde. "Concern because they want the situation of their economy to be recognized at the fund and frustration because the IMF has had many European managing directors, and they want to know whether applicants intend to represent the general interest."

According to a tentative plan for her one-day trip to Brazil, Ms. Lagarde will meet with Brazil's finance minister, Guido Mantega; foreign minister, Antonio Patriota, and central bank president, Alexandre Tombini. France will pick up the tab for Ms. Lagarde's travel, according to a French government official.

Ms. Lagarde officially launched her candidacy for the IMF top job last week to succeed former managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned after being arrested on charges of attempted rape of a housekeeper in a New York hotel earlier this month.

While Ms. Lagarde has the backing of most European countries, emerging nations are more skeptical toward her candidacy. Several of them have said the job should go to a candidate from an emerging nation to reflect their growing weight on the world scene, and they have questioned the clubby arrangement under which the job of IMF managing director has gone to a European while the World Bank has been headed by an American. Ms. Lagarde said her trip was intended to allay such concerns.

Mexico's central bank governor, Agustin Carstens, also declared his candidacy last week, while Israeli central banker Stanley Fischer is examining a formal bid to seek the position and figures he has an outside shot at the job if there is a deadlock in the voting, said an official familiar with his thinking.

Mr. Fischer, a former deputy managing director of the IMF, is a long shot. While he is widely respected among central bankers and finance ministers, his current position as Israel's central bank governor would make it tough to win the support of Arab nations and other emerging-market countries, said an Arab official who has worked with Mr. Fischer.

Ms. Lagarde's intention to campaign in the Middle East comes as the IMF is likely to play a greater role in "Arab Spring" countries in transition. The Group of Eight leading nations on Friday directed multilateral institutions to take the lead in offering financial assistance to Egypt and Tunisia, where the uprisings that have swept across the region began in January.

Asked whether the IMF chief job should remain in European hands, Ms. Lagarde said: "When you are IMF head you become an international animal because you are accountable to all 187 member countries. But I remain deeply French and European by culture."

The former corporate lawyer will need the backing of the U.S. if she is to land the IMF job. At the G-8 meeting in Deauville, French President Nicolas Sarkozy hinted that U.S. President Barack Obama had already made his choice for the fund's managing director and was leaning towards Ms. Lagarde.

While Ms. Lagarde stressed the U.S. hasn't made its stance public yet, she noted the support of U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for her candidacy. Speaking last week in Paris, Ms. Clinton said the U.S. "unofficially" welcomes women in high-profile jobs at international institutions such as the IMF.

The finance minister said she would stay at her post if she isn't successful in her campaign to lead the IMF. Assurances have been given by both France's president and prime minister, she said.

Turning to Europe, Ms, Lagarde repeated that a restructuring of Greece's sovereign debt wasn't being considered but said that Greece had to continue to trim its deficit and speed up its privatization plan as well as undertake structural reforms as these were the conditions for financial support from its euro-zone peers and the IMF.

The French economy has had a very strong start to the year, Ms. Lagarde said. She said she was keeping her gross domestic product forecasts at 2% for this year and at 2.25% for 2012.

In the first quarter, France saw its GDP grow by 1%, the fastest rate since 2006.