In IMF race, Lagarde has peaked too early

LONDON (MarketWatch) ¡X Christine Lagarde is an estimable woman. But for the plum job at the International Monetary Fund she is the wrong candidate proposed at the wrong time and for the wrong reasons. What¡¦s more, there is a certain possibility she won¡¦t get it. The truth is starting to dawn. In the race for the IMF managing directorship, the French finance minister may have peaked too early.

At the heart of the matter is a big principle. One that goes far beyond the normal boundaries of political horse-trading. Arguably, the leadership of the Bretton Woods institutions cannot remain a European-American duopoly.

A backlash against European pre-emption has already started to build. Five emerging economies ¡X Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa ¡X have attacked the ¡§obsolete unwritten convention¡¨ that the next IMF managing director should be a European. At the Group of Eight summit meeting in Deauville, President Barack Obama played his cards with care, declining to back Lagarde or any other nominee specifically. An important player in the G-20, the Korean government, came out in support of the French candidate on Friday, but the key to the conundrum lies in the White House. 

Strain broke through Lagarde¡¦s normally ice-cool veneer on Friday when she somewhat crassly told the BBC that the No. 1 reason why she would make a good candidate was because she ¡§wanted the job¡¨. As a method for building up a following from the developing world, this was hardly scientific or even half-plausible. There are in fact many reasons why that backing is unlikely to be forthcoming. The U.S. may well end up with second thoughts about joining the Lagarde bandwagon.

Lagarde has attempted to defuse criticism of the selection process by saying that nationality should be irrelevant. A bit patronizingly, she has declared she would appoint a slew of developing-country officials into top IMF posts to offset any regional personnel imbalances. Amid a tide of media interviews, she says she¡¦s ready for a tub-thumping tour of the emerging economies, starting probably with India.

Think again, Christine! More haste, less progress. It would not be a surprise if Obama were to delay an endorsement until a clear-cut candidate emerges from the developing world. There is no love lost between the U.S. administration and the European Union, which the White House regards as more or less irrelevant on most issues.

A U.S. snub of European aspirations might destroy Europe¡¦s support for the traditional American role supplying the World Bank chief ¡X an outcome that could cut off congressional approval for World Bank funding. However, such calculations ignore the likelihood that developing-country gratitude for an American gesture over the IMF might win compliance from this quarter for the U.S. position at the World Bank ¡X a quid pro quo that would leave the Europeans out in the cold.

The idea that the vacancy left by Dominique Strauss-Kahn¡¦s bizarre farewell could be filled by yet another candidate from the machinery of French power was always pretty grotesque. It is likely to look downright pantomimic once colorful details of Strauss-Kahn¡¦s alleged sexual misdemeanors are paraded around the world when court procedures and lawyers¡¦ leaks gain momentum.

There¡¦s also the little matter of the legal probe into whether Lagarde showed favoritism in helping businessman Bernard Tapie gain large-scale compensation from the state in 2008. Rather than embarking on an international road show, Lagarde might prefer to lie low for a while.

However, here¡¦s the catch. The developing economies have yet to produce a thoroughbred candidate. Various personalities from Mexico, Brazil and South Africa are not entirely convincing. A plausible alternative, Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz from the Malaysian central bank, has declared she is not available.

No doubt a ¡§dark horse¡¨ will emerge. A suitable person for high office might be Rintaro Tamaki, the acclaimed vice Japanese minister for international financial affairs. He meets many key criteria for the job. Capitalizing on the welling up of international support after the March earthquake, Japan might prove to be a bridge between East and West. If that happens, the case will be proven. Low-key campaigns are the best