France's Lagarde: IMF Could Speed Up Rebalancing Of Member Representation 

BRASILIA (Dow Jones)--French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde said the International Monetary Fund could speed up a rebalancing of member-nation representation if she is elected to its top post.

Speaking after meetings with Brazilian Finance authorities on her candidacy for the position of the fund's managing director, Lagarde said if elected she could seek to carry out planned changes in the organization's governance to meet recent demands from key emerging-market members.

"All that needs to be adjusted on a regular basis," Lagarde said. "It's typically every five years, but on occasion that has to be accelerated--the world is changing faster than every five years."

Lagarde announced her candidacy for the post earlier this month after former managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn stepped down from the position to defend himself against sexual assault charges

As part of its mission, Lagarde said the IMF should promote a "stable and predictable" international foreign exchange environment to help reduce recent turbulence seen in global markets.

She said countries' exchange conditions should be evaluated by the fund on a case-by-case basis that would include a variety of indicators.

"Surveillance must be applied to all countries and should include components from macroeconomics to social issues like unemployment and financial indicators," she said.

The finance minister said that so far her candidacy had received backing by a variety of nations from Europe, Africa and Asia, but said she would strive to run an administration that served the interests of all fund member countries.

Lagarde said her views were mostly in line with those of Brazilian officials. However, she said the meetings Monday served mainly to demonstrate her positions and that no commitments were discussed. Also absent from the conversations, she said, were Brazil's interest in seeking a temporary term for the next director to serve the remainder of Strauss-Kahn's term.

After her Brazil visit, Lagarde has made plans to take her campaign to other emerging market nations including China, India, and key Middle Eastern nations.

So far, Lagarde is one of few publicly declared candidates in the running for the IMF managing director post alongside Mexican central bank president Agustin Carstens.

Carstens is scheduled to visit Brazil Wednesday to meet with local authorities. 