France's Lagarde: Will Remain Committed To IMF Reforms 

BRASILIA (Dow Jones)--French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde will remain committed to the process of reform at the International Monetary Fund if chosen as the next managing director of the institution, Lagarde said Monday.

Lagarde made the declaration following a lunchtime meeting with Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega.

"My candidacy for the position of IMF managing director is representative of the current of reforms in discussion," Lagarde said.

Lagarde is in Brazil for a short time as she tours to gain support for her candidacy to the IMF position.

The minister announced her candidacy for the post earlier this month after former Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn stepped down from the position to defend himself against sexual assault charges.

Lagarde said that the national origin of a candidate wasn't of top importance and said her administration would give priority to modification of the IMF's rules of governance and equal representation of members.

"The IMF belongs to all its member-nations," she said.

The French minister, meanwhile, avoided offering a hard opinion on a current key question: whether Greece will soon need to restructure its debt.

"The question of Greece's debt isn't limited to the IMF and so I'd prefer to leave discussion of that matter for another moment," she said.

Mantega Monday expressed gratitude for Lagarde's visit, but remained publicly noncommittal about whether Brazil would support the French minister's candidacy.

"What's important for Brazil is that the IMF maintains the trajectory of reforms begun over the past three years," Mantega said.

The Brazilian minister indicated that his country had not yet chosen the candidate it would back and said it would remain open to hear potential candidates through June 10.

Mantega, however, said that the qualifications, and not nation of origin, is most important for a candidate. Historically, the IMF managing director has been a European, and the presidency of the World Bank goes to an American.

"The rule of national origin for the director at the IMF is outdated," he said. "What's more important is the criteria of competence for the job."

Following her meeting with Mantega, Lagarde on Monday afternoon is scheduled to meet with Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini. After her Brazil visit, Lagarde has made plans to take her campaign to other emerging markets, including China, India and key Middle Eastern nations.

Until now, Lagarde is one of the few publicly declared candidates in the running for the IMF managing director post, alongside Mexican central bank President Agustin Carstens.

Carstens is scheduled to visit Brazil Wednesday to meet with local authorities. 