Lagarde lobbies for IMF support

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c6061a28-8ae8-11e0-b2f1-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1OJaw7bVN

Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, began a tour on Monday to lobby support among the big emerging economies for her bid to become managing director of the International Monetary Fund.

She vowed in Brasilia to ¡§universalise¡¨ the organisation. Ms Lagarde is regarded as the frontrunner for the post but Brazilian support would be an important stepping stone to rallying other developing countries around her candidacy. 

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c6061a28-8ae8-11e0-b2f1-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1OJaxZJPK

¡§If I was elected, I would make sure that the diversity of all of its [the IMF¡¦s] members would be represented at every level,¡¨ Ms Lagarde told a press conference.

The French minister¡¦s trip to Brazil will be followed by visits to India, China, Russia and Saudi Arabia as she seeks to reassure developing countries that she will continue reforms started by Dominique Strauss-Kahn. Mr Strauss-Kahn¡¦s resignation, after he was charged with attempted rape, has created a vacancy that is being contested by two declared candidates so far ¡V Ms Lagarde and Agustin Carstens, head of Mexico¡¦s central bank.

Brazil has not openly supported any candidate. But Dilma Rousseff, Brazilian president, is thought to be leaning towards Ms Lagarde¡¦s bid provided she promises to reform the IMF to give more representation to emerging market economies. Ms Lagarde had lunch with Guido Mantega, Brazilian finance minister.

¡§It is very important that there is greater participation of officials from emerging countries in the bureaucracy of the fund,¡¨ Mr Mantega said. Ms Lagarde said the IMF needed to make appointments based on merit, without regard to country of origin. ¡§Their [Brazil¡¦s] concern was about the trend of reforms?.?.?.?and I happen to think this trend of reforms is right,¡¨ Ms Lagarde said. ¡§[Country of origin] should not play as a handicap, nor should it play as a benefit.¡¨

Emerging markets led by the so-called Bric group of developing countries, which comprises Brazil, Russia, India and China, called this month, in a rare show of unity, for a more merit-based system for appointing the IMF managing director. While they stopped short of urging the abolition of an unwritten rule of always appointing a European to head the IMF, some emerging market countries are unhappy with the present process.

¡§Well before nominations for this position close on June 10, we already see the traditional deals being made around tables at which even the major emerging market economies are not present,¡¨ said Pravin Gordhan, South African finance minister.

Ms Lagarde¡¦s tour came as a French businessman and anti-corruption campaigner asked prosecutors to investigate her. Jean-Marie Kuhn accused Ms Lagarde of abusing her authority by allowing state bank Caisse des Depots this year to buy a 25 per cent stake in the gas grid of utility GDF Suez, according to a letter to a state prosecutor, reported by Reuters.

The finance ministry denied the charge. Ms Lagarde also denies any misconduct in separate accusations over her 2008 decision to settle a dispute between the state and Bernard Tapie, a businessman friend of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president. 