IMF-Head Hopefuls Visit Brazil On Global Campaign

BRASILIA, May 30 (BERNAMA-NNN-MERCOPRESS) - The two leading candidates for the position of IMF Managing director are expected in Brazil this week as part of a global lobby campaign for the position.

French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde is expected here later today to seek support for her candidacy, the French embassy said.

Mexico's central bank governor Agustin Carstens is also expected here on Wed June 1, a spokesman for Brazil's finance ministry said.

Lagarde's visit would be her first stop on a tour of "emerging powers" that is also expected to include visits to China and India.

She is scheduled to have lunch with her Brazilian counterpart Guido Mantega and also meet with the Brazilian central bank president Alexandre Tombini, the French embassy said.

The French finance minister is the favourite to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn and following this week's G8 meeting in Normandy allegedly has a majority support from its eight members, Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Canada, Russia, Japan and the United States, sources said.

However BRICS, the group of emerging economic powers that includes Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, have criticised the Europeans' grip on the IMF, but have not yet agreed on a candidate of their own.

On Tues May 24 representatives of BRICS in a statement said they are "concerned" with indications from European officials that the position of managing director should continue to be held by a European.

The 2008-2009 financial crisis in the U.S and Europe showed the need to reform institutions like the IMF "to reflect the growing role of developing countries in the world economy," they said.

The five have however refrained from endorsing any candidate, with the nominating period still open up until June 10, and Mantega indicating Brazil would back a candidate who holds positions that are "most consistent with our views".

Mantega said earlier this week he had already spoken with both Lagarde and Carstens, with the Mexican governor "requesting our support.", local media reported.