G8 leaders, French president support Christine Lagarde's IMF bid

Read more: http://www.news.com.au/business/g8-leaders-french-president-support-christine-lagardes-imf-bid/story-e6frfm1i-1226065360819#ixzz1OJpsR44G


G8 leaders unanimously backed French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde's bid to run the International Monetary Fund as she comes under fire for a 2008 legal case that may harm her chances.

Mr Juppe said all eight nations were firmly behind Ms Lagarde at a Group of Eight summit last week.

"Among the eight heads of state and government, plus the president of the European Commission and the president of the European Council who were there, there was unanimous support for Christine Lagarde," Mr Juppe said on Canal+ television.

Assurances were also given both by France's president and its prime minister, Ms Lagarde told French radio Europe 1. "In consultations I've had with the president and the prime minister, there wasn't the shadow of a doubt and I thank them for their support."

The top IMF job is vacant after Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned as he faced sexual assault charges.  Strauss-Kahn, who is currently under house arrest in New York, vowed to fight the charges.

Start of sidebar. Skip to end of sidebar.

End of sidebar. Return to start of sidebar.

Ms Lagarde biggest obstacle to the top job is a potential inquiry into her role in a 2008 legal settlement, which involved paying £á285 million ($380 million) to businessman Bernard Tapie, an ally of French President Nicolas Sarkozy, reported Business Spectator. 

French Opposition Socialist Party politicians say she abused her authority when she awarded the money to Mr Tapie.

Ms Lagarde said she would stay at her current post if she was not elected to the helm of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).

Ms Lagarde officially launched her candidacy for the IMF top job on May 25, and was about to embark on a tour of a few prominent emerging countries to gain support for her bid, including Brazil, starting yesterday.

Several emerging countries had said the fund's chief job should be given to a candidate from an emerging nation to reflect the recent shift of power in the world economy.

"I have chosen to visit emerging countries because they have expressed concern and frustration. Concern because they want the situation of their economy to be recognized at the fund, and frustration because the IMF has had many European managing directors and they want to know whether applicants intend to represent the general interest," Ms Lagarde said.

Besides countries like China and India, Lagarde was likely to also campaign in the Middle East for her IMF candidacy, she said.

Read more: http://www.news.com.au/business/g8-leaders-french-president-support-christine-lagardes-imf-bid/story-e6frfm1i-1226065360819#ixzz1OJptwFUV
