PARIS -(Dow Jones)- France should have been more cautious in putting Finance Minister Christine Lagarde forward to lead the International Monetary Fund due to an ongoing legal case, the head of the finance commission at the national assembly said Monday.

A court is considering whether to look into Lagarde's actions in 2007 when she referred a dispute between French businessman Bernard Tapie and the state to an arbitration panel, rather than leave it to the French justice system. The court is reviewing accusations, made by French opposition Socialist lawmakers, that Lagarde overstepped her authority.

"I asked French authorities to be cautious," Jerome Cahuzac said on French radio Europe 1, adding he regrets the state didn't follow his advice.

The complex case relates to a dispute between Tapie and Credit Lyonnais, which lent the businessman money to buy German sportswear company Adidas in the early 1990s and then advised him in selling the company three years later. Tapie alleged in a complaint to Paris's commercial court that Credit Lyonnais, then a state-owned bank, fraudulently profited from the 1993 resale. At the time, the bank denied it was disloyal toward Tapie.

When she became finance minister, Lagarde referred the case to an arbitration panel, which made a binding decision in 2008 and Tapie was awarded around EUR420 million gross in damages. The Socialist opposition questioned whether it was legitimate for the case to go to arbitration.

Lagarde formally announced her candidacy to head the IMF last week and is currently visiting Brazil as part of that campaign. Speaking on the same radio station Sunday, Lagarde said the dossier against her is "empty," and repeated she has a clear conscience.

"Contrary to what has been said by Mrs.Lagarde, (Prime Minister) Francois Fillon and others, the dossier is not empty," said Cahuzac, who is also a member of parliament for the Socialist Party. "Two experienced prosecutors, both legal professionals, both unquestionable individuals without partisan political commitments... consider there is maybe material to interrogate Christine Lagarde," he said.

Meanwhile, Lagarde has secured strong global support for the IMF top job, according to the French government.

"Between the eight heads of state and government (at the Deauville G-8 summit), as well as the heads of the European Commission and the European Council, there was unanimity to support Christine Lagarde," Foreign Affairs Minister Alain Juppe said on television Channel Canal Plus Sunday.

Juppe's comments follow a more elliptical statement from French President Nicolas Sarkozy, in which he suggested Lagarde has secured the crucial backing of the U.S. At the Deauville summit, Sarkozy said he believed U.S. President Barack Obama had made up his mind and that it is unlikely he would disagree with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who said Saturday the U.S. welcomes women in top jobs of institutions like the IMF. 