Spain would vote for Carstens with IMF Latam bloc

MADRID, May 31 (Reuters) - Spain wants France's Christine Lagarde to head the IMF, but the fund's group voting procedures would oblige it to back Mexico's Agustin Carstens if he stands, Economy Minister Elena Salgado said on Tuesday.

"Our presence in the IMF shares a seat with Mexico, with Venezuela and other countries of Latin America, so Spain's vote is with the seat, an indivisible seat," Salgado told reporters at a news conference.

But she also immediately said, "our view is that Lagarde is an excellent candidate and that is who we want to occupy the position."

Mexican Central Bank Governor Carstens and French Finance Minister Lagarde are the only declared candidates to head the International Monetary Fund after the previous director Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned to fight sexual assault charges in the United States.

Debate is raging over Strauss-Kahn's replacement, with many developing countries resisting the long-standing practice of choosing a European to head the Washington-based fund.

Carstens said in newspaper interviews on Tuesday that a non-European head of the IMF could mean a tougher, more realistic action plan for the euro zone debt crisis. [ID:nLDE74U042]

The IMF's executive board is made up of 24 directors, each representing a collection of member countries. Spain is in a group that has 4.66 percent weighting on the board and is directed by Mexican Carlos Perez-Verdia.

Other countries in the same group are Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Venezuela.

"Our presence is on a seat, in which the vote is indivisible, and on which we share practically the same weight as Mexico and many other countries," Salgado said.

Brazil, which heads an IMF group with a 2.79 percent weighting, has not officially sided with either candidate. However, government officials say in private that the administration of President Dilma Rousseff is inclined to back Lagarde as long as she pledges to support reforms that would give emerging economies more say in IMF decision-making.

Brazil, the largest country in Latin America, is grouped with Colombia, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guyana, Haiti and Suriname.