Mexican IMF Candidate Calls for Bailout Flexibility 

LISBON¡XMexico's Agustin Carstens, so far the lone challenger to Europe's renewed claim to head the International Monetary Fund, suggests more flexibility for countries on IMF support programs as he seeks backing in Europe.

The Bank of Mexico governor, the chief rival to France's Christine Lagarde, said the IMF needs someone from an emerging market with experience in handling financial crises.

Mr. Carstens was in Lisbon and Madrid this week as part of a global whistle-stop tour to win support for his candidacy. Without mentioning Greece specifically, Mr. Carstens said that financially-distressed countries shouldn't be punished for failed goals as long as they show commitment. 

"When programs are designed in a crisis, there is too much uncertainty, and the fund needs to be flexible in recognizing measures aren't working as well as expected and be flexible with that and finding a new solution," he said.

The IMF currently withholds financial assistance if a recipient country doesn't meet certain commitments on budget reforms and deficit reduction. This week Greece's budget accounting is being measured by the IMF and the European Union to see if it is eligible for its next aid installment. Worries that Athens will miss its targets have kept European financial markets on edge for a month.

Emerging economies in Asia and Africa have supported a break from the tradition of a European holding the top financial post, but Europeans have been quick to back the French finance minister.

Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned earlier this month after being charged in New York with sexual assault, was closely focused on Europe's debt crisis and measures to keep it from spreading. Europeans argue that the next official will have to do the same.

Ms. Lagarde also has planned visits to the Americas and Asia to glean support among the big emerging markets that are playing an increasingly active role in helping to manage the world economy within the Group of 20 leading industrial countries.

The top European candidate said in Brazil this week that her IMF administration would give priority to modification of the IMF's rules of governance and equal representation of members. Traditionally, the job of the managing director has gone to a European while an American has headed the World Bank.

"Pretty much all the countries that aren't European are embracing the idea that a candidate should be picked on merit, rather than origin," Mr. Carstens said. 

He took issue with Ms. Lagarde's argument that having someone with knowledge of the European political intricacies during the European sovereign-debt crisis would be advantageous.

"I absolutely don't agree with the idea that the IMF needs a European," Mr. Carstens said. "It needs a person who has had experience in handling crisis, who has a strong financial record, and it needs someone from Latin America."

Mr. Carstens said the IMF needs to look into having a much stronger surveillance power in the financial sector, and be able to "produce early warnings" that could help countries avoid financial-led problems. IMF aid operations also must keep a close eye on financial markets, he said.

"At the end of the day, the key is to change the dynamics in the markets by showing that what nations are doing and putting on the table is effective," he said.

After Portugal, the IMF candidate heads to Brazil on Wednesday, two days after Ms. Lagarde's visit. He is also due to visit Argentina, Canada, India, China and Japan over the coming weeks. 