Brazil warms up to Lagarde

When Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, capped off her whirlwind visit to Brasilia on Monday with a press conference, she announced she would be speaking in French and English followed by a translation into Portuguese. A Brazilian journalist loudly interjected that this was Brazil and there should be a simultaneous translation into Portuguese, which was after all the mother tongue here.

The episode was a small illustration of the assertiveness of the new Brazil. It is this increasing confidence in Brazil of its role on the international stage that led Ms Lagarde to make Latin America¡¦s largest economy the first stop on her tour of the world¡¦s emerging markets to gain support for her bid to become the next managing director of the International Monetary Fund. If she can win over Brazil, she will gain credibility for her campaign among other emerging markets.

Brazil was one of the signatories of a statement by the Bric nations earlier this month that the IMF should make senior appointments based on merit not on country of origin. While they seem to have backed off from trying to force the IMF to abandon its traditional practice of appointing a European as the managing director this time around, the message was clear. Brazil and its partners, Russia, China and India, will be pushing for a candidate outside Europe in the future.

For its part, Brazil seems to be supportive of Ms Lagarde¡¦s bid. It is thought to be lukewarm about a rival campaign by Mexican central bank chief Agustin Carstens, in spite of, or perhaps because he is a fellow Latin American. Unnamed Brazilian officials have been muttering in the local media that Ms Lagarde is better qualified than Mr Carstens but the true reason may be intra-regional rivalry between Brazil and Mexico.

Brazil may also feel this is not the right opportunity to mount a concerted campaign of its own for the top IMF post. The sudden departure of the previous managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn did not leave enough time for Brazil and other emerging markets to build consensus among themselves to immediately break with tradition and get behind a non-European candidate for the job. The crisis in Greece provides the perfect pretext for settling for the status quo this time around.

But as Guido Mantega, Brazil¡¦s finance minister, warned on Monday, just because there is a crisis in Europe it should not mean that only a European can be considered qualified to run the IMF now. If that were the case, then there would have been numerous Latin American IMF managing directors given the region¡¦s many crises in the past.

Ms Lagarde was also asked at the press conference for a prediction on how she saw the composition of the IMF management in five years¡¦ time. She answered that she did not have a crystal ball. If she did, she would probably see someone from an emerging market taking over the leadership of the organisation after she ¡V or whoever wins this round ¡V steps down at the conclusion of this coming term