Mexico's IMF hopeful aims to get tough on bailouts

Central banker Agustin Carstens, the only declared rival to hot favourite Christine Lagarde in the race to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn at the helm of the IMF, signalled a more hardline stance on bailed-out countries if he breaks the European stranglehold on the post since World War Two.

Carstens said "a pair of fresh eyes" could take a more dispassionate view of the eurozone's woes and warned only "tough measures" would steer a way out of the crisis.

"There are still bitter pills to be swallowed and the international financial community should give its support, but in my experience there is no alternative to taking these tough measures," said Carstens, who also claimed more experience than his French rival.

Lagarde, who has the backing of all the major G8 nations, was today wooing further support in Brazil with pledges to give faster-growing nations a bigger say at the IMF's top table. Brazil has yet to decide whether to back her. Greece, which took a £á110 billion (¢G95.4 billion) bailout a year ago, is in line for a further £á60 billion in loans by the end of June when inspectors from the European Central Bank, EU and IMF complete their review of its dire finances.

But there was better news for the crippled nation amid reports German Chancellor Angela Merkel is ready to drop her insistence that holders of Greek debt should take losses in return for further loans, effectively a default.

The climbdown will be hugely unpopular with German voters but eased the pressure on Greece from international markets as the nation's benchmark
10-year borrowing costs fell 0.11%
to 15.78%.

The euro surged 1.2 cents against the dollar to $1.4409 and made smaller gains against the pound.
An emergency summit is said to have been pencilled in for next weekend to push ahead with the fresh rescue package, with Greece on the brink of running out of cash by mid-July.

Greece, forced into another £á6 billion in budget cuts and £á50 billion in state privatisations, faces a £á30 billion funding gap in 2012 and remains shut out of international markets by soaring borrowing costs.

Ratings agency Fitch said it doubted Greece's ability to deliver on its pledges.