Lagarde in Brazil as she seeks support of Brics for IMF post

FRENCH Finance Minister Christine Lagarde yesterday sought to rally support for her bid to lead the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a visit to Brazil, one of several emerging nations seeking an end to Europe¡¦s stranglehold on the powerful post.

Ms Lagarde arrived in Brazil yesterday on the first stop of her tour for a working lunch with her Brazilian counterpart, Guido Mantega, and Brazilian central bank chief Alexandre Tombini.

"I have proposed to Brazil, China, India and certain African countries" to pay them a visit, she said in an interview earlier, adding that Brazil was her first stop because it was the first state to respond to her proposal.

Brazil is one of the so-called Brics, the group of emerging economic powers that includes Brazil, Russia, India, China and SA. They have criticised the Europeans¡¦ grip on the IMF, but have not yet agreed on a candidate of their own, much less one with the broad support of Ms Lagarde.

Ms Lagarde, a former lawyer, has been France¡¦s finance minister since 2007 and is heavily favoured to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn.

Mr Strauss-Kahn has been charged with sexual assault in New York and resigned on May 19. He is on bail in the US, awaiting trial for attempted rape.

A European ¡X most often from France ¡X has led the IMF since its creation in 1945, while the US has supplied the president of the World Bank.

Analysts say developing states may secure the deputy¡¦s post as IMF deputy MD John Lipsky leaves in three months.

French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said on Sunday all Group of Eight leaders backed Ms Lagarde¡¦s bid to run the IMF.

So far, she has two declared rivals: Mexico¡¦s central bank chief, Agustin Carstens, and Kazakh central bank boss Grigory Marchenko. One of the undeclared candidates developing nations are touting for the IMF top job is SA¡¦s Planning Minister Trevor Manuel .

Brazilian officials have said that Mr Carstens was expected in Brasilia tomorrow.

The IMF is due to publish the full list of candidates seeking to become the next MD by June 17. The final selection is expected to be announced by June 30.

The IMF¡¦s executive board, whose members represent a country or a group of countries, is aiming to select the next chief by consensus, but it could resort to a vote. Sapa-AFP 