BRASILIA (Dow Jones)--The International Monetary Fund should be flexible in offering assistance for emerging-market nations, including recognizing countries' rights to impose capital controls and build foreign reserves in cases where needed, Bank of Mexico President Agustin Carstens said Wednesday.

Carstens made the declarations at a press conference following a meeting with Brazilian officials regarding his candidacy for the position of managing director at the fund.

"It's important that the fund recognize the right, and allow full flexibility, for countries to impose capital controls that they judge convenient," Carstens said. "The same is true for the accumulation of reserves--there is no universal rule that should be applied to all countries."

Carstens said he believed it was important that emerging-market nations and Latin American nations see more representation at the IMF, and added he believed the fund would gain more legitimacy in dealing with current difficulties in Europe if it had a non-European director.

He also said he would back accelerating reforms under way at the IMF if he were chosen for the post.

"I believe fully that emerging-market nations should have increased quotas in the fund and that accords made in recent years should be implemented as soon as possible," he said, adding that a new round of reform talks could be begun as early as 2012.

Carstens, a former deputy managing director at the fund, announced his candidacy for the IMF post last month after former managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn stepped down from the position to defend himself against sexual-assault charges.

So far, Carstens is in the running for the position against French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, the only other formally announced candidate for the post. Lagarde visited with Brazilian authorities Monday.

Also speaking after Wednesday's meeting, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega reiterated recent statements that Brazil hasn't yet chosen its candidate for the IMF post. Mantega, however, said it is important that there be a non-European candidate in the running for the job and said Brazil would make its choice based on merit and not on nationality. In particular, Mantega said Brazil would give its backing to the candidate that best represents chances to continue reforms at the fund.

"The fund can't regress to being the representative of the G-7 or G-8 that it was previously," he said. "It needs to be a mirror of the G-20, which today represents both developed and emerging-market nations."

Mantega, meanwhile, also denied rumors that Brazil might be negotiating positions within the fund in exchange for backing a candidate for the managing director's post.

"We're playing an open hand by putting our conditions on the table," he said. "There are no reserved negotiations."

Asked by reporters whether he believes his candidacy could get ample support considering strong backing from developed economies for Lagarde, Carstens said support for him was growing and that he believes most nations would hear out candidates until a June 10 deadline.

"I wouldn't be campaigning if I didn't believe my candidacy was viable," he said.

After his Brazil visit, Carstens plans to take the campaign to other key IMF member nations including Argentina, India, China and Japan. 
