Another view: Many still fear the dinosaurs in Mexico

Were the dinosaurs vanquished? Or just sleeping?

That question is still unanswerable as Mexico¡¦s presidential election returns power to the party that ruled for more than 70 years using patronage, corruption and repression.

The answer will matter a great deal to Mexico¡¦s continued economic development and to the United States, which has security, economic and social interests in seeing real, multiparty democracy rule in Mexico.

Mexican President-elect Enrique Pea Nieto says his Institutional 

Revolutionary Party, or PRI, is fully reformed. In accepting victory July 1, he vowed that his administration will be open and accountable.

That promise sets the standard for measuring his success.

Pea Nieto needs to ensure that the public and a wide range of reporters and commentators have easy access to his administration. This will help ease fears that the friendly relationship he enjoyed with Mexico¡¦s major television station during the campaign will not result in a lack of scrutiny as he governs.

The choices he makes for his cabinet and advisers will say a great deal about whether he is leaving the dinosaurs of Mexico¡¦s political past behind ¡X or is fronting for their return.

The PRI orchestrated what was called the ¡§perfect dictatorship¡¨ for decades. After election reforms cost the PRI the presidency 12 years ago, the party learned to function in a multiparty democracy. Dynamic, young leaders, such as Pea Nieto, emerged.

But many fear this election will mark a regression to a time when the PRI was far more interested in consolidating power than fighting criminal elements. Pea Nieto has said he intends to focus far less on waging war against the drug cartels than curbing violent crime, kidnapping and robbery.

Does this signal a desire to make peace with the cartels? Is that what the Mexican people want?

Pea Nieto¡¦s victory is partially attributed to Mexico¡¦s anxiety over the war against the drug cartels. Waged by President Felipe Caldern since he began his six-year term in 2006, the effort to break the cartels resulted in a death toll that exceeds 50,000. The cartels remain so strong that Caldern said he and his family are likely to leave the country when his term expires in December out of fear the cartels might come after him.

A Washington Post poll indicated that about 80 percent of Mexicans support Caldern¡¦s use of the military in the drug war. Nearly the same number cite violence and human-rights abuses by the Mexican military as concerns.

The effort to reform Mexico¡¦s institutions and fully replace the legacy of corruption the PRI left after its seven-decade rule remains a work in progress.

Mexico¡¦s emergence as a prosperous, democratic nation depends to a large extent on Pea Nieto¡¦s commitment to continue reforms on behalf of his country, not subvert them in the interest of his party.

He set the standard against which he will be judged. He promised open, accountable government.

This is what Mexico needs.