Mexicans protest at 'vote-buying' for President

MEXICO CITY: Tens of thousands of Mexicans marched in the capital on Saturday to protest against alleged fraud and vote-buying in the country's July 1 presidential election.
Beating drums and waving flags, the protesters chanted ''Out Pena'', in reference to Enrique Pena Nieto, whose victory restored the once-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, to power after a 12-year hiatus.
The runner-up, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, while denying he was behind the marches, which he said was a citizens' movement, repeated a call he has made almost daily since the vote for a full probe of alleged vote-buying by the PRI.
A recount of more than half of 50.3 million ballots cast was completed on Friday, giving Mr Pena Nieto 38.2 per cent compared with 31.6 per cent for Mr Lopez Obrador.


Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/mexicans-protest-at-votebuying-for-president-20120708-21pcp.html#ixzz22HmXC2MW

''The results were manipulated and showed lots of vote-buying,'' Citlalli Avila Espinoza, 46, a graphic artist who was among the protesters marching peacefully along the busy Paseo de la Reforma, said. ''We want in a peaceful manner to repudiate these results.''
Allegations that the PRI handed out bank cards, groceries and other gifts in exchange for votes are reviving Mexicans' concerns that Mr Pena Nieto will be tolerant of the corruption that marked the PRI's previous 71-year-rule until 2000.
Many protesters were members of the anti-PRI movement formed by students on the internet in the run-up to the election.
Mr Lopez Obrador, 58, hasn't repeated his call from six years ago for supporters to take to the streets, saying that he's evaluating the election day by day and will pursue his complaints through legal means. The former Mexico City mayor said he'll next address the media today at 8am local time.
After losing the 2006 race to President Felipe Calderon by less than a percentage point, Mr Lopez Obrador's supporters occupied Mexico City's central plaza and main business avenue for weeks with encampments.
In what may be a bellwether for Mr Lopez Obrador's ability to protest at the election, the Venezuelan President, Hugo Chavez, who six years ago backed him and didn't recognise Mr Calderon's victory for months, yesterday congratulated the 45-year-old Mr Pena Nieto.
Mr Chavez ''reiterated Venezuela's will to work with Mexico in deepening bilateral co-operation in the union of our peoples,'' its information ministry said in an emailed statement.
The ruling National Action Party, or PAN, whose candidate finished third, has also accused the PRI of fraud and vote-buying. Still, unlike Mr Lopez Obrador, who has refused to concede defeat, it recognised the PRI's victory as irreversible.
Mr Pena Nieto's campaign said in an emailed statement that the candidate acknowledges ''the right of other parties and candidates to resort to legal actions to resolve any doubts that arise, but the transparency of the electoral process and the support of Mexican society'' for the campaign are ''indisputable''.


Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/mexicans-protest-at-votebuying-for-president-20120708-21pcp.html#ixzz22HmYiFZv