Mexico's Leader Seeks to Shed the Past

MEXICO CITY¡XLast Sunday, having just won Mexico's presidential election, Enrique Pena Nieto stood before a cheering crowd of union leaders, peasant bosses and stalwarts of the legendary Institutional Revolutionary Party that ruled Mexico for 71 years in the last century.

Many hoped to hear a gloating victory speech from the man who ended the party's 12 years in the political wilderness. Instead, Mr. Pena Nieto issued a warning.

"Mexicans have given us a second chance," said the president-elect. "Anyone who does not have a firm commitment to democracy, to liberty and to transparency, has no room in this project¡K.There will be no return to the past."

For many Mexicans, Mr. Pena Nieto, 45, is a paradox. He is the new face of an old party that ruled with a mixture of patronage and corruption from 1929 to 2000, one of the most successful political monopolies the world has seen. He is a young man with an old-fashioned air. The question for many is how much of a departure, if any, he will represent for the party, known as the PRI.

"We won't know for several months whether it's a modern and democratic PRI that has returned to power, or it's the same old corrupt and authoritarian PRI dinosaur, now dressed as a romantic leading man," said Jose Antonio Alvarez Lima, a former PRI governor turned columnist and political analyst.

On Sunday, Mr. Pena Nieto, the former governor of the state of Mexico, won 38% of the vote to win the presidency. He beat leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is challenging the result in court, and Josefina Vazquez Mota from the governing National Action Party.

Six out of 10 Mexicans voted against Mr. Pena Nieto, who is aware he must convince voters that he and his party¡Xwhich Peruvian writer Mario Vargas Llosa famously called "the perfect dictatorship"¡Xhave changed.

Mr. Pena Nieto is anchored in Mexico's political past, a member of a clan that has produced at least four governors from the powerful state of Mexico, which surrounds Mexico City, since the 1940s.

"Pena Nieto represents the worst and most backward aspects of Mexican political culture," says Sergio Aguayo, a political analyst at the Colegio de Mexico who backed Mr. Lopez Obrador. Mr. Pena Nieto has an authoritarian streak, Mr. Aguayo said, citing a 2010 study of democratic development in Mexico made by the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, in which the state of Mexico under Mr. Pena Nieto came in the lower one-third of Mexican states.

A spokesman denies the allegations. As governor, the spokesman says, Mr. Pena Nieto faced a congress controlled by the opposition but worked with legislators from other parties to push through a far-reaching set of reforms.

The eldest of four children born to a Catholic family, Mr. Pena Nieto became enthralled with politics after his father took him to a PRI rally as a boy, he said. In high school, he says, he was a fanatical chess player, often playing covertly in back of the class with another student, a book propped up to obscure the board.

"I was a good chess player and bad student," he said in an interview this week. But he added that the qualities of a good chess player¡Xdiscipline, patience, and a strategic sense¡Xhave helped him in government.

Mr. Pena Nieto got both his undergraduate law degree and his MBA from Mexican universities, but learned English by spending his junior year at a Catholic boarding school in Maine.

Mr. Pena Nieto began his career in politics literally carrying the valise of Arturo Montiel, a distant relative who acted as his mentor and became state governor. Both he and Mr. Montiel¡Xwhose ambition to become president foundered when he couldn't explain a string of luxury homes from Acapulco to Paris¡Xare considered to be members of the most powerful political group within the PRI, named after Atlacomulco, the town in the state of Mexico where they are from.

Mexican political legend says a soothsayer prophesied that six natives of Atlacomulco would become governors, and one would be president. The most famous member of the group, a schoolteacher-turned-Mexico City mayor named Carlos Hank Gonzalez, coined one of the most memorable phrases in Mexican politics: "A politician who is poor is a poor politician."

Even Mr. Pena Nieto's trademark haircut¡Xa copete, or Elvis Presley-style quiff, dates to the 1950s. Mr. Pena Nieto's language is also full of archaic formalisms. He refers to himself as "your servant." Well-known historian Enrique Krauze describes Mr. Pena Nieto as a "young man with old manners."

Yet he has also surrounded himself with young aides, many trained in the best U.S. universities. Luis Videgaray, who most analysts believe will be either his minister of finance or his chief of staff, has a doctorate from MIT.

Mr. Pena Nieto and his team say they want to wean Mexico from its past of corruption and kick-start its economy, long a poor performer, by opening up its state-owned energy industry and pushing through fiscal and labor reforms.

In the run-up to the campaign, Mr. Pena Nieto appeared pragmatic and cool-headed. Last year, he threw his weight behind an up-from-the-bootstraps but popular politician to be PRI candidate for the state of Mexico election instead of a political ally and distant kinsman who bore a legendary political name. Mr. Pena Nieto's choice won the vote.

Late last year, Mr. Pena Nieto cut loose the PRI's president, a former governor accused of corruption and weighing down his state with debt, a move that appeared to limit the fallout.

Mr. Pena Nieto casts a wider net for advisers than outgoing President Felipe Calderon, who was widely criticized for filling his cabinets with loyalists. Mr. Pena Nieto hired Gen. Oscar Naranjo, the recently retired head of Colombia's national police, as a security adviser. Mr. Naranjo gained a good international reputation for having helped lower the country's murder rate. But the hire of the Colombian drew nationalistic attacks from Mr. Pena Nieto's opponents.

Mr. Naranjo would be welcome, whatever his nationality, for his expertise, Mr. Pena Nieto said in the interview.

Mr. Pena Nieto has a bold streak, say advisers, a quality he will need to press a reform agenda that could rattle powerful interests within the PRI, like the oil workers' union.

As governor, Mr. Pena Nieto pushed a crackdown on tax cheats to improve his state's lax tax collection. Mr. Videgaray, who was in charge of the project, soon realized that several members of Mr. Pena Nieto's own cabinet were at the top of the list of tax evaders, and told Mr. Pena Nieto so.

At the next cabinet meeting, the governor announced that he had started a crackdown on tax cheats, and had ordered Mr. Videgaray to start with the cabinet. When several cabinet members approached Mr. Videgaray after the meeting to ask if he would, indeed, be going after them, Mr. Videgaray said he shrugged his shoulders: "You heard him. What can I do?" The evaders paid up, Mr. Videgaray said.

A key factor in Mr. Pena Nieto's rise has been a star quality and "seductive appeal," especially to women, says Alberto Tavira, a gossip columnist who wrote a book called "The Women of Pena Nieto."

Women even threw themselves at him during his father's funeral in 2005, says Mr. Tavira, who covered the funeral for the society gossip magazine Quien, or Who. "I went back to the magazine and told everybody we had a Luis Miguel of politics," said Mr. Tavira, referring to a Latin American pop idol. Every time Quien put Mr. Pena Nieto on the cover, the magazine sold out, says Mr. Tavira.

The president-elect has had a tangled private life. He has admitted to having two children out of wedlock with two women.

In 2007, Mr. Pena Nieto's life turned into a real-life version of a Mexican soap opera. His wife, Monica Pretelini, died after an epileptic seizure. Soon after, Mr. Pena Nieto¡Xquickly dubbed the "Golden Widower" by gossip magazines¡Xbegan to date Angelica Rivera, the leading lady of several popular soap operas broadcast by Mexico's leading network Grupo Televisa TV +0.09% SAB.

Mexican broadcasters and media gave often glowing coverage in the years to come. Many Mexicans say Televisa favored Mr. Pena Nieto's career, an allegation taken up by a student protest movement that erupted during the campaign. Both the politician and broadcaster deny any such favoritism.

The anti-Pena Nieto, anti-Televisa student movement points towards a paradox, says Mr. Krauze, the historian: "He is a young man who young people hate."

The question is whether history will prove them wrong. Cast by critics as a tool of PRI dinosaurs, Mr. Pena Nieto has instead positioned himself as someone who can give the old party a new brand.

"There is an old, implacable PRI in him, but also the promise of something new," says Mexican writer Hector Aguilar Camin.