Elite counterdrug units proposed for Mexico

BOGOTA, Colombia ¡X The top security adviser for Mexico¡¦s next president said Friday that he is recommending the creation of elite units of police and troops who will target not just major drug traffickers but also lower-level cartel hitmen as a way of swiftly reducing violence.

The proposal newly retired Colombian police director Gen. Oscar Naranjo explained in an interview with The Associated Press offers a glimpse of how President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto might fulfill his promise to slash the number of murders and kidnappings by 50 percent during his six years in office.

Similar to the approach that Naranjo employed against Colombian traffickers, the proposal raises the question of whether the widely respected general can reproduce his success in a very different country.

Also Friday, completing a partial recount nearly a week after Mexicans went to the polls, election officials confirmed that Pena Nieto had won the nation¡¦s presidential election. The candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, won 38 percent of the vote, with the leftist candidate, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, receiving 32 percent. Josefina Vazquez Mota of the conservative party got 25 percent.

The final results were in line with the preliminary count reported shortly after polls closed Sunday, but Lopez Obrador, who in 2006 lost by a sliver to the current president, Felipe Calderon, is claiming fraud, citing news media and social media reports of vote-buying, and calling for a total recount of the vote.

Drug violence

More than 47,500 people have been killed in drug-related violence since President Felipe Calderon launched a military-led offensive against Mexico¡¦s cartels nearly six years ago.

Pena Nieto has pledged to reduce violence by refocusing law-enforcement efforts away from the current administration¡¦s heavy reliance on the military to capture drug-cartel leaders and seize their product. He says he wants to better protect ordinary citizens from criminals.

He provided few specifics during his three-month campaign, leading to speculation he would ease pressure on traffickers as long as they throttled down violence.

U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, who has held a series of meetings with the president-elect and his advisers, told the AP this week that Pena Nieto has discussed a new offensive against the smaller, local gangs that have cropped up in many Mexican states and earn money through kidnapping and extortion in addition to drug dealing.

Naranjo¡¦s proposal of small, elite units dovetails with that idea. Such units have specific goals and typically work in isolation. The better a unit performs, the more resources it gets. Information is compartmentalized to prevent leaks. The model worked in Colombia and Naranjo said it could also be effective in Mexico.

Such units, which Naranjo said could be comprised in Mexico of the Army, Navy and police, should pursue not just of ¡§high-value targets¡¨ such as Sinaloa and Zeta cartel bosses, said Naranjo, who retired June 12 after five years atop his country¡¦s 170,000-member police.

It¡¦s feasible, he said, because Mexico¡¦s violence ¡§is really concentrated. If you look at the map of violence there it¡¦s in six places. It¡¦s impossible that in six cities you can¡¦t have some control.¡¨

The 55-year-old Colombian said he does not believe it wise to use Mexico¡¦s military against drug traffickers, criticizing Calderon¡¦s sending of 10,000 troops into Ciudad Juarez at the end of last year. It neither reduced deaths nor intimidated criminals, he said.