Dave Graham: Fears of new chaos after presidential election

Time and again, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has proven that Mexico¡¦s left-wing parties cannot compete without him. But after his defeat in Sunday¡¦s presidential election, they may not be able to prosper with him either.

The most successful Mexican leftist in a generation has taken his followers to within sight of power in the last two presidential elections ¡X only to fall short, reject the results and end up in a defiant stand-off with rivals.

Six years after he brought central areas of Mexico City to a standstill protesting the outcome of the 2006 election, Lopez Obrador is now challenging last Sunday¡¦s election result, raising fears of new chaos in the capital and deep divisions in Congress.

He has built up a loyal following that extends from the poorest sections of society to intellectuals who applaud his talk of ending corruption and eradicating poverty. But he has fallen short of the votes needed to win power and seems unable to broaden his appeal much further, with many voters worried he would be a radical and divisive president.

His uncompromising attitude has sown division in the Left¡¦s ranks in the past, and could now restrict its ability to influence legislation as it prepares to enter the lower house of Congress as the second strongest force.

Lopez Obrador has accused winning candidate Enrique Pena Nieto and his opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, of conspiring with powerful business interests to steal the presidential election with vote buying and illegal funding.

As US President Barack Obama and other world leaders congratulated Pena Nieto on his win, Lopez Obrador called him ¡§totally immoral¡¨ and said everyone who voted for his rival, apart from the poor, were deliberately backing a ¡§regime of corruption.¡¨

The words are unlikely to encourage cooperation between the two camps in Congress, where results suggest the centrist PRI has fallen short of an absolute majority, making it reliant on the support of other groups to pass bills.

Some senior leftist politicians are worried that they will again be sidelined.

¡§We shouldn¡¦t make the mistake we made in 2006,¡¨ said Jesus Ortega, a former chairman of the Party of the Democratic Revolution, or PRD, the main leftist group in Congress and in the coalition that backed Lopez Obrador¡¦s candidacy.

¡§We can¡¦t isolate ourselves or get marginalised or hide in systemic opposition. We need to be actors in the deals and the negotiations for the progressive reforms the country needs.¡¨

The PRD, which also tightened its hold on Mexico City by winning more than 60 per cent of the vote in an election for mayor on Sunday, is eager to use its strength to press the case for democratic, political and judicial reform in Mexico.

Boosted by a recent upsurge in student-led opposition to the PRI and its ties with Mexico¡¦s dominant media, the PRD is also riding a wave of popular demands to loosen the television stranglehold of broadcasters Televisa and TV Azteca.

