Mexican President-Elect Pena Nieto to Upend Energy, Telecom Conglomerates

On 1 July Enrique Pena Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) won the Mexican presidential election, ending the National Action Party¡¦s (PAN) twelve year long hold on power under the leadership of Vicente Fox and incumbent President Felipe Calderon. In an effort to steer post-election discussions away from the PRI¡¦s speculative associations with drug cartels and cronyism, Pena Nieto now seeks to initiate a new economic program that will improve the image of the party and constitute a dramatic shakeup of Mexico¡¦s energy and telecommunications industries.

The Mexican economy is fairing relatively well on the global stage, allowing Pena Nieto some room to develop his economic policy. Indicators suggest Mexico is currently experiencing a period of relative stability with the rate of inflation expected to hover around 3% for the rest of the year and expectations that the peso is poised to strengthen against the US dollar. That said, Mexico has not entirely escaped the volatility from Europe as investors have been cautious of the buying assets in less developed countries like Mexico.

Regulating the oil industry

The real crux of Pena Nieto¡¦s economic agenda will lie in overhauling two domestic industries: oil production and telecommunications. Both of these industries suffer from a lack of competition and are dominated primarily by just a few large firms. Mexican oil production is entirely state-controlled under the direction of Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex. The company is responsible for raising a third of the government¡¦s revenue, constituting 60% of its own proceeds. This figure has proven unsustainable as Pemex is billions of pesos in debt and unable to make crucial technology investments or search out new oil sources.

Pena Nieto has plans to implement reforms which will privatize Pemex and hopefully reduce the current inefficiencies present in the oil industry. Pemex¡¦s production rate has demonstrated a markedly quick decline in output recently. For example, the Canterell field produced around 400,000 barrels a day in April which translates into a 14% drop from the previous year. Since 2006, the field¡¦s production has fallen 74% and led to speculation that Mexico may become a net importer of energy. 3The government intends to either sell its stake in Pemex or pass a constitutional change to allow oil concessions to private companies in hopes of attracting foreign investment.

Pena Nieto¡¦s push for energy reform faces considerable political opposition in Congress. In Sunday¡¦s congressional elections, the PRI failed to reach a ruling majority or two-thirds of total seats in the lower house, the Chamber of Deputies. For Pena Nieto, this result signifies difficulties ahead in feasibly passing his reform agenda since the opposition is expected to challenge the introduction of these policies.

However, his efforts may be bolstered by a potential working coalition with the PAN, whose presidential candidate, Josefina Vazquez Mota, is also supportive of privatization for Pemex. Successful cooperation is likely to lead to further legislative collaboration on Pena Nieto¡¦s reform agenda. He has expressed his anticipation of such a prospect, having been quoted telling reporters that ¡§I¡¦m convinced we¡¦ll achieve an accord with other political forces.¡¨

Tackling telecom reform

In reforming telecommunications ¡V the second half of the progression towards economic modernity ¡V Pena Nieto faces not a political rival, but an influential private citizen, billionaire Carlos Slim. Slim owns two telephone companies ¡V America Movil for mobile phones and Telmex for fixed lines ¡V that dominate their respective markets, with 80% and 70% shares, respectively. This system of single-ownership has not fared well for the Mexican economy, as a January 2012 report by the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development estimates Mexicans have been overcharged for telecommunication services by $13.4 billion.

The report states that the lack of competition in the telecommunications industry costs the Mexican economy approximately $25 billion a year. It goes on to assign some responsibility for this mass inefficiency to the government due to the restrictions it places on foreign investment in the industry and the inadequate freedom given to the regulatory authority Cofetel. Government opposition has plagued Slim¡¦s goal of expanding his monopolies into the cable television market, yet no further regulation of the phone companies has occurred.

Pena Nieto¡¦s challenge will lie in his ability to quiet suspicions of collusion between Mexican television giant Televisa and the PRI in promoting his presidential campaign. Should he succeed in securing tighter restrictions on Slim¡¦s phone companies and open the television market to competition, the national economic benefits will accompany bolstered political credibility for Pena Nieto. Further, the development of an effective partnership with the PAN would quiet critics¡¦ skepticism over the antiquated business and political methods of the PRI. A legitimized process of reform could dramatically alter the course of the Mexican economy farther along in the 21st century.