Mexico election: Votes for sale

MEXICO CITY, Mexico ¡X A partial vote recount confirmed Enrique Pena Nieto as winner of the Mexican presidential election. But accusations of vote buying are piling up against him and his party.

Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the candidate for a coalition of three left-wing parties, refuses to admit defeat and has demanded a full recount.

He accuses the winning Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, of committing widespread vote buying when it granted gift cards to voters in low-income areas as an inducement to pick its candidate, Pena Nieto.

"All this was ... well-designed, deliberate, dishonest and, of course, undemocratic vote buying," Lopez Obrador said Thursday from a stage at his campaign headquarters, plastered with the cards in question. 

The third-place candidate, Josefina Vezquez Mota of the governing National Action Party (PAN), also questioned what she said was the PRI's excessive campaign spending, but not the election outcome. She conceded shortly after a preliminary count last week.

On Saturday in the capital city, thousands of marchers took to the streets in protest against the winners' alleged vote buying.

The PRI vehemently denies any wrongdoing. New results published Friday by Mexico¡¦s elections commission show Pena Nieto taking slightly more than 38 percent of the vote, roughly the same as its original count after the July 1 election. That¡¦s 7 percentage points ahead of Lopez Obrador ¡Xsubstantially less than the double-digit margin projected by pre-election polls.

More from Mexico: Pena Nieto powers forward, Lopez Obrador digs in his heels

The win means the return to power of the PRI, which had ruled Mexico for 71 straight years. Voters had evicted the party in 2000, after the PRI had gained an unsavory reputation for corruption and election rigging.

Now, that narrative is being upstaged by new allegations of polling chicanery.

At a supermarket on the eastern side of Mexico City, residents went on a whirlwind shopping spree and cleared the shelves. Eager customers said they were using pre-paid cards given to them by the PRI, The Associated Press reported after the election.

Supermarket chain Soriana said in a statement that it has no relationship with the party. Pena Nieto told the BBC that his campaign has never bought votes.

Allegations of vote buying are nothing new in Mexico, however. Stories abound from the days of one-party rule when PRI operatives handed sandwiches and soft drinks to villagers and then escorting them to cast not-so-secret ballots.