Mexicans protest the imposition of Enrique Pena Nieto as President of Mexico

Thousands of people marched on Saturday from the Angel of Independence monument, a famous landmark of Mexico City to the principal plaza in Mexico, El Zocalo, to repudiate the imposition of Enrique Pena Nieto, the candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), as the presumed President-elect of Mexico. Chanting ：we don・t want the PRI,； and ：the people voted and Pena Nieto didn・t win,； an estimated 50 thousand students, workers and housewives show their disapproval for an allegedly fraudulent election and the imposition of Pena Nieto as president.

The Instituto Federal Electoral (The Federal Electoral Institute or IFE) began to recount the votes last Wednesday, as competing parties contesting the elections, citizens, international and national observers and NGOs claimed that the elections were loaded with massive fraud, coercion and vote-buying. According to the IFE, Pena Nieto confirmed his victory with an advantage of 6.62% over his closer competitor, Manuel Lopez Obrador of the Movimiento Progresista (Progressive Movement).

For the PRI, it seems like business as usual. The PRI, the ：official； party that controlled the country for more than seven decades while submerging the country into corruption, huge inefficient and corrupt government bureaucracy, criminality and poverty is back to power. This presidential campaign is perhaps one of the dirtiest campaigns Mexico has ever seen, and there have been many, perpetrated by the PRI.

The PRI formed an alliance with Partido Verde Ecologista de Mexico, known as PVEM (Green Ecologist Party of Mexico). The PRI allegedly bought the vote, through intimidation or giving groceries, goods, and prepaid cards to people in poor neighborhoods that could be used to buy goods at a well-known supermarket chain in Mexico. The fraud was so evident, that people crowded the stores, hoping to cash in with the prepaid cards while fearing cancellation of their windfall.

Allegedly, some people had many prepaid cards that they had ：earned,； by convincing others to give away their vote. There are even allegations that the PRI even used children to make sure that people in the voting boots voted for the PRI-PVEM coalition.

The presidential campaign was reinforced by a massive publicity campaign in favor of Pena Nieto. During the presidential campaign the major monopoly and broadcasting company of Mexico, Televisa, gave more coverage to Pena Nieto than to any of the other candidates.

According to the newspaper La Jornada, Manuel Lopez Obrador's campaign team presented documents that show how, through the company Monex, the PRI was able to allocate 168 million Mexican pesos (around $1.5 million) to buy the vote.

There are reports of complete packets of electoral ballots stolen in rural areas of Mexico and having to negotiate with drug dealers to allow people to vote. Observers of the election and NGOs agree that the elections in Mexico to choose the President and members of the Congress have been one of the biggest operations of vote-buying and coercion in the history of Mexico. Knowing that the elections were fraudulent, instead of recounting falsified ballots, the IFE needs to repeat the electoral process, and make sure that there are enough personal and volunteers in the national territory to observe the elections.

Mr. Pena Nieto denies any wrongdoing by his party. Despite the documentation that links the PRI with vote-buying and coercion, as well as the international and national observers testimonies of flagrant irregularities in the election process. Pena Nieto told to BBC: ： I am totally, totally certain that the party acted within the law.；

In an interview with the New York Times when asked about his party・s corrupt reputation, Pena Nieto said:

I can・t single out my party. In all parties there are regrettable cases that have tarnished the institutions represented by certain actors. Therefore, it・s necessary to strengthen the state through public entities like the one I・ve proposed, the National Anticorruption Commission, to combat corruption.

To appease the fears of the United States that Mexico will not combat the major drug cartels, Pena Nieto said to the New York Times, he will continue combating the drug trafficking but will target primarily the insecurity and kidnappings in the Mexican territory.