SIFUENTES: Can a 'dinosaur' rule Mexico?

If there is one thing that last week's presidential election in Mexico proved, it was that the "party of dinosaurs" was not quite ready for the museum.

The Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) candidate, Enrique Pena Nieto, led the four-way race with 38 percent of the vote, according to preliminary results issued by the Mexican government. Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, of the leftist Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD), had 32 percent and appeared on his way to challenge the results alleging widespread fraud and vote-buying.

Mexicans, understandably, expressed outrage.

Many gathered in Tijuana on Wednesday and in San Diego on Thursday to express their displeasure with the results.

North County residents attended some of those protests, while some expressed their frustration on Facebook and Twitter. They expressed disbelief that a PRI candidate could have won the presidency in Mexico. They searched for answers in pages of Mexico's past.

Only fraud could explain the PRI candidate's victory, some said. As evidence, some of them pointed to the fact that Mexicans abroad voted Pena Nieto a distant third.

None of this is new to Mexico, where Lopez Obrador and his supporters blocked major Mexico City streets for weeks after his 2006 loss to President Felipe Calderon. The allegations that the PRI stole the election are not new, either.

Charges of corruption and authoritarianism drove the PRI out of power 12 years ago after decades of uninterrupted rule in Mexico.

The PRI became known as the party of dinosaurs because many thought it was headed to extinction.

But old parties, like bad habits, die hard. The PRI has been mounting its comeback since losing the presidency in 2000. It fielded younger candidates in local elections and built on those successes.

Pena Nieto, a former governor of the state of Mexico, has been campaigning for years. At 45, he looks nothing like a dinosaur.

In fact, Pena Nieto has TV soap opera star good looks and is married to a Mexican TV soap opera star.

But why should any of this matter to Americans? That's easy.

Mexico is one of the United States' most important trade partners. It turns out that Mexicans love American clothes, computer and cars. The better off they are, the more money they will have to purchase those goods.

If the country does not do well economically, more Mexicans will be tempted to come to the U.S., legally or illegally, in search of work.

And most importantly, we are neighbors. We share a long and troublesome border. How well the leaders of both countries work together will determine whether we can control the illegal flow of drugs, guns, money and people across that border.

If his election is confirmed, Pena Nieto faces huge challenges: reduce poverty, increase the standard of living, attract more foreign investment, fight corruption, fight crime and fight drug cartels.

Can a candidate who wins the presidency with only 38 percent of the vote do all that successfully?

Let's hope so.