UPDATE 1-Mexican electoral officials confirm Pena Nieto win

MEXICO CITY, July 8 (Reuters) - Enrique Pena Nieto won
Mexico's July 1 presidential election by 3.3 million ballots, or
almost 7 percentage points, although allegations of excessive
campaign spending and voter fraud could be reviewed by the
electoral tribunal, officials said on Sunday.

Vote counts also confirmed that Pena Nieto's Institutional
Revolutionary Party (PRI) and its allies in the Green Party
would have a minority in both houses of Congress, which could
complicate his agenda when he takes office in December.

According to the final count, Pena Nieto got 19.2 million
votes, or 38.21 percent, compared to 15.9 million, or 31.59
percent, for leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.

In third place with 12.8 million votes, or 25.4 percent, was
Josefina Vazquez Mota of the National Action Party, or PAN, of
President Felipe Calderon, who was barred by the constitution
from running for a second term. The PAN was hurt by a sluggish
economy and dissatisfaction over drug-related violence.

Calderon has congratulated Pena Nieto on his election win,
as have leaders from dozens of other countries.

Mexican tribunals have until September to rule on any
wrongdoing and officially name Pena Nieto as president.

Calculations by electoral officials projected that the PRI
and its Green Party allies will have 240 deputies in the
500-seat lower house of Congress, which will convene in
September.

Pena Nieto, however, may also be able to garner support from
10 deputies from the centrist New Alliance party.

The PAN will have 116 deputies, according to the
projections. But Calderon's party may also support energy and
labor reforms that Pena Nieto has proposed. The president-elect
has advocated allowing foreign investment into the oil industry
and making it easier for employers to hire and fire workers.

Three leftist parties, who want to keep existing labor
protections and national control of the oil industry, have the
remaining 134 seats in the lower house.

In the 128-seat Senate, the PRI and Green Party will have 62
seats, followed by the PAN with 38. The three leftist parties
will have 27 senators, according to the projections.

The number of deputies and senators could change following
rulings by the electoral tribunal, officials said.

Both Lopez Obrador and the PAN have alleged that Pena Nieto
overspent, although they have yet to file legal complaints to
the tribunal.

Lopez Obrador said Saturday that he is gathering evidence
for a legal challenge and urged the PAN to join him.

Tens of thousands also marched through the Mexican capital
against Pena Nieto on Saturday, holding banners accusing him of
being corrupt and authoritarian.

Pena Nieto denies wrongdoing and PRI officials say they
could sue Lopez Obrador over his accusations.

Pena Nieto's win returns the PRI to presidential power after
12 years in the wilderness. It had previously held the
presidency continually from 1929 until 2000.