Briefly: Mexican elections certain to face court challenges

MEXICO CITY ¡X Mexico¡¦s leftist presidential candidate said he is mounting a court challenge against the results of the July 1 elections, claiming vote-buying and campaign overspending by winner Enrique Pena Nieto.

Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said his team is gathering evidence that state officials gave money to Mr. Pena Nieto¡¦s Institutional Revolutionary Party.

Mr. Lopez Obrador said Monday he plans to file the challenges by Thursday.

It remains unclear whether President Felipe Calderon¡¦s National Action Party will join the court challenges.

ARGENTINA

Ex-dictators convicted of stealing babies

BUENOS AIRES ¡X The conviction of two former dictators for the systematic stealing of babies from political prisoners 30 years ago is a big step in Argentina¡¦s effort to punish that era¡¦s human rights abuses, though certainly not the last.

Following Thursday¡¦s convictions of Rafael Videla and Reynaldo Bignone, at least 17 other major cases are before judges or are nearing trial.

Among them is a ¡§mega-trial¡¨ involving the Navy Mechanics School, which became a feared torture center as the 1976-1983 military junta kidnapped and killed 13,000 opponents while trying to annihilate an armed leftist uprising. That case involves 65 defendants, nearly 900 victims, more than 100 witnesses and about 60,000 pages of evidence.

VENEZUELA

Chavez: Rival trying to destabilize Venezuela

CARACAS ¡X President Hugo Chavez and his allies accused opposition presidential candidate Henrique Capriles on Sunday of trying to provoke violence by campaigning in areas that have been bastions of support for the incumbent leader.

Mr. Chavez accused Mr. Capriles of trying to spur violence as part of a broader plan aimed at creating widespread political upheaval ahead of Venezuela¡¦s looming Oct. 7 presidential election.

The socialist leader spoke after a scuffle Saturday involving stone-throwing Chavistas and opposition sympathizers who joined Mr. Capriles as he led a march in the poor Caracas district of La Vega. Police forced him to turn back without completing the march.

Mr. Capriles called for calm and attempted to avoid any violence amid the tussle, which police broke up before violence escalated. No major injuries were reported.