Mexican president-elect may lay off drug cartels

MEXICO CITY ¡X Mexico¡¦s next president has boldly promised to halve the number of kidnappings and killings during his six-year term by moving law enforcement away from showy drug busts and focusing on protecting ordinary citizens from gangs.

Yet Enrique Pena Nieto said remarkably little specific about his anti-crime strategy during the three-month campaign that ended with his still-contested victory in the July 1 election.

That ambiguity has fed fears at home and abroad that Mr. Pena Nieto might look the other way if cartels smuggle drugs northward without creating violence in Mexico.

Many analysts wonder whether Mr. Pena Nieto is holding back politically sensitive details of his plans, or simply doesn¡¦t know yet how he will be prosecute the next stage of Mexico¡¦s drug war.

Some hints are starting to seep out. A close acquaintance, Rep. Henry Cuellar, Texas Democrat, told the Associated Press that the president-elect has discussed a new offensive against the smaller, local gangs that have cropped up in many Mexican states and earn money through kidnapping and extortion in addition to drug dealing.

President Felipe Calderon¡¦s 5 1/2-year war against the big cartels has been criticized by some for fracturing control of territory and smuggling routes, spawning smaller gangs like La Linea in Chihuahua state and La Barredora in the city of Acapulco that view ordinary citizens as their primary source of illicit income.

¡§In Mexico, you have the drug cartels and then you¡¦ve got regional gangs that are taking advantage of what¡¦s happening there,¡¨ said Mr. Cuellar. ¡§That is what he means by reducing the violence: Go after those folks who are actually hurting, assaulting and kidnapping people.¡¨

Confronting cartels

Analysts have said any new focus necessarily means fewer of Mexico¡¦s limited resources would go to fighting the biggest smugglers of drugs to the U.S.

But Mr. Cuellar, who has met with Mr. Pena Nieto several times in the U.S. and Mexico, stressed that the man who will become president Dec. 1 insists he will still target larger organizations such as the Zetas and Sinaloa cartels, the rival groups that have become Mexico¡¦s dominant criminal organizations.

¡§He¡¦s told me he¡¦s going to go after everybody,¡¨ Mr. Cuellar said. ¡§He said, ¡¥It¡¦s the drug cartels and the gangs, and I¡¦m going to reduce the violence.¡¦ ¡§

Since the election, Mr. Pena Nieto repeatedly has promised to continue Mr. Calderon¡¦s confrontation with cartels, sending messages to Mexican and U.S. audiences that his new approach will not mean quiet accords with drug gangs in exchange for a reduction in violence that has killed at least 47,500 people since late 2006.

¡§We will wage an effective fight against the capos, against the heads of the cartels, but clearly also with a rethinking that will allow a lowering of violence,¡¨ Mr. Pena Nieto told a small group of reporters last week. ¡§There will be no truce, no pact with organized crime.¡¨

Mr. Pena Nieto¡¦s Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, ran Mexico for 71 unbroken years of autocratic rule that ended in 2000, and it was accused of systemic corruption that included payoffs from drug lords in exchange for protection.

Despite Mr. Pena Nieto¡¦s firm disavowals, many Mexicans said they were voting for the PRI in part because they believed its return to power would bring back those backroom deals and reduce violence.