Elections present historic opportunities

With the completion of Mexico・s presidential elections on July 1, one North American presidential election is in the books. We have another to go in November when the United States holds its election.

Enrique Pena Nieto of Mexico・s Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which ruled Mexico for 71 years before losing power to the PAN in 2000, is Mexico・s president-elect. After a hotly contested and often-bitter campaign, Pena Nieto garnered approximately 38 percent of the national vote to beat his nearest rival, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, by six percentage points. He will officially take office on Dec. 1.

Pena Nieto inherits a country that is at a historic crossroads in terms of reform, security, and setting the economy on the right track for the future. During the campaign, he made a pledge to return Mexico to the days when it was experiencing 6 percent annual economic growth, although this seems to be overly ambitious according to most economists・ assessments.

He will need to deal with the issue of injecting more private investment into Mexico・s government-run oil behemoth, PEMEX. The oil-rich country faces becoming a net importer of oil as its energy needs increase and PEMEX continues to be run as an inefficient government entity in dire need of private investment to upgrade infrastructure.

Mexico・s president-elect also must deal with educational and judicial systems that are in dire need of revamping. As one of the world・s leading emerging economies, Mexico・s educational system lacks the standardization and infrastructure that it is going to need to allow competition with other nations in the future. It is universally accepted that the Mexican judicial system has long needed reform to root out corruption and to provide a consistent system of jurisprudence in order to keep attracting foreign investment.

Pena Nieto assumes the reins of a country in which approximately 62 percent of the people who voted in the election did not vote for him. The vote can hardly be considered a mandate, especially as it appears that the PRI will not have an absolute majority in Congress to support the new administration・s platform. Pena Nieto・s political and negotiating skills will be tested to the limits.

Probably his biggest challenge is developing trust among Mexicans who fear that he represents a move back to the bad old days when the PRI used fraud, bullying, and other heavy-handed tactics to maintain its grip on power. Others question his mental aptitude, after he committed some glaring gaffes during the campaign. He has been painted as an artificial creation by the PRI without a lot of substance.

On the positive side, the presidential elections present a tremendous opportunity for the U.S. and Mexico. The new president of Mexico will embark on a six-year term that will have either a four-year overlap with the Obama administration or up to a six-year overlap with the Romney administration, if Mitt Romney wins in November and then is re-elected.

Collectively, the newly installed presidents of both countries will need to work on issues related to immigration, border security, illegal drugs and energy. The November presidential and congressional elections in the U.S. can be used as a new beginning to address the hot-potato issue of immigration reform, and how to deal with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the U.S. This is an issue that has been mired in politics with no clear solution in sight.

The winner of the November U.S. presidential election will need to work closely with Pena Nieto to deal with cross-border security issues and the war on drugs that are responsible for violence and security breaches along the entire U.S.-Mexico border. The populations of both nations have hit a fatigue level with these issues and are demanding a proactive approach on behalf of their leadership.

In terms of trade, the presidents, along with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, can strengthen North America・s competitive position in the world by working together to remove bottlenecks which impede the movement of products between the three North American Free Trade Agreement partners. A healthy North American trading bloc offers U.S., Mexican and Canadian companies the best opportunity of remaining competitive in the future against firms in regions such as Asia and Europe.

As one of my elementary school teachers always used to say, ：The world is your oyster.； In this case the oyster lies before the three North American nations. The challenge is how we shuck it.