Lopez Obrador Mulls Court Challenge of Election Results (Mexico City)

MEXICO CITY ¡X Mexican presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said Monday he's considering filing a lawsuit to have the July 1 election results voided amid what he said is new evidence of vote-buying by state governors.

"We can't accept these results," Lopez Obrador said in Mexico City, adding that he'll decide by a July 12 deadline whether to seek legal action to overturn results showing he lost to Enrique Pena Nieto by more than six percentage points. "I pledge on behalf of all Mexicans to fight for transparency."

Tens of thousands of Mexicans marched in the capital Sunday to protest alleged fraud and vote-buying by Pena Nieto's Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. Allegations that the PRI handed out bank cards, groceries and other gifts in exchange for votes are reviving Mexicans' concerns that the incoming president will be tolerant of corruption that marred the PRI's previous 71-year-rule until 2000.

Lopez Obrador said that his party has so far detected about 5 million instances of vote-buying by Pena Nieto's party, including new evidence that PRI governors in several states diverted aid earmarked for flooding victims and instead used the public funds to buy votes. Lopez Obrador said he'd decide Thursday what type of legal action he plans to take.

A phone call to Pena Nieto's campaign was not immediately returned.

President Felipe Calderon called on electoral authorities Monday to investigate alleged vote buying in a radio interview with Enfoque Noticias. "This buying and selling of political support, whether it's 10, 100 or 1,000, is simply unacceptable, and I ask that the electoral authorities rectify it immediately and if need be punish those responsible."

A recount of more than half of ballots cast confirmed that Pena Nieto won the election with 38.2 percent support compared with 31.6 percent for Lopez Obrador, a difference of about 3.3 million votes. Josefina Vazquez Mota of Calderon's National Action Party had 25.4 percent of the vote.

A recount of the congressional elections confirmed that a PRI-led coalition won the most seats of any party in both houses of Congress, although it fell short of a majority, said Jeffrey Weldon, a political scientist at the Mexico Autonomous Technological Institute. Electoral authorities have yet to release the official tally of seats each party won in the vote for all 500 lower house members and all 128 Senate members.

The PRI has denied the allegations of vote-buying, saying July 5 that it was being "framed" by Lopez Obrador.