Q&A: Mexico election result

Enrique Pena Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) has been confirmed as the winner of Mexico's presidential election, following a final recount.

But his nearest challenger, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, of the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD) has said that he will challenge the result in the electoral court.

So is Mr Pena Nieto Mexico's president-elect?

Officially no. According to the Federal Code of Electoral Procedures and Institutions (Cofipe), all the challenges presented by the political parties must be resolved before a final result can be declared.

It is the role of the three judges who sit on the Federal Electoral Court (Trife), the maximum authority, to address the complaints and allegations regarding the election.

What did the Federal Electoral Institute (IFE) rule on then?

The IFE counted votes cast on 1 July for president, 128 federal senators and 500 federal deputies. This included a partial recount. Results from 78,469 polling booths, more than half of the 143,000 installed for the election, were checked.

The final result after this gave Mr Pena Nieto 19.2m votes - 38.21% of the total. Mr Lopez Obrador was in second place with 15.9m votes - 31.59%. Third-placed Josefina Vazquez Mota of the National Action Party (PAN) had 12.8m votes - 25.41%.

What were the key allegations?

The Progressive Movement, a coalition of leftist parties that includes the PRD, and the PAN alleged that many voters received money or store cards in exchange for voting for Mr Pena Nieto and the PRI.

They also complained that some local authorities or PRI officials had pressured people to vote for the party.

The Progressive Movement has also called for an investigation into the alleged use of state government money to buy votes, via social programmes and distribution of food.

Mr Lopez Obrador has also alleged that Mr Pena Nieto spent more during the electoral campaign than allowed by law.

Mr Pena Nieto told the BBC he and his party had done nothing wrong and that he may sue his opponents over the allegations.

What will the Electoral Court consider?

The Electoral Court will examine the voting records from the electoral authorities, as well as details of the complaints and allegations presented by the political parties. Those wishing to challenge the result have until midnight local time on Thursday to do so.

The judges will rule whether the voting took place in accordance with electoral law, and whether the alleged irregularities would have changed the outcome. According to the law, the judges may decide to open ballot boxes that have not so far been checked.

Once the judges have conducted their review, they will rule on the validity of the election and declare who is the president-elect.