Fringes cast shadow over French election 

PARIS ¡X Socialist Francois Hollande and conservative Nicolas Sarkozy are going head-to-head in France's presidential runoff, but a third figure looms large in the campaign: the leader of the nation's far-right National Front.

Nearly one in five French voters cast their ballot in the first round for Marine Le Pen. She wants to pull out of the euro currency, reinstate border controls, crack down on immigrants, and stamp out what she claims is the Islamization of France.

That means both Hollande, who had a slight lead in Sunday's vote, and the incumbent Sarkozy are sure to reach out to the fringes, likely with protectionist rhetoric at a time when Europe is seeking steady leadership from France to help lead it out of its catastrophic debt crisis.

Voter frustration with the status quo and with the EU fed a rise of support for extremes at both ends of the political scale, making potential kingmakers out of 11 million voters who supported candidates of the far right and left.

In the biggest surprise of Sunday's first round, voters gave Le Pen a strong third-place showing, handing her far-right National Front almost double the support it got in the last election in 2007 - and the most since her father, firebrand Jean-Marie Le Pen, founded the party.

Wooing the extremes will likely occupy much of the remaining campaign, as how Sarkozy and Hollande divide their support holds the key to who wins the decisive second round May 6. The result has profound consequences not only for the fate of France, but of Europe itself. And as the victor strives to steer a course out of economic turmoil, he may find himself haunted by populist promises made in courting the fringes.

In his first post-election speech, Hollande alluded to National Front voters who may have cast ballots for Le Pen because they feel the system left them behind.

"We have to look further for voters," Hollande said in a speech in a square in Quimper, in the western region of Brittany. "Women and men who don't know where to go ... go toward the extreme."

If Hollande wins the runoff, he will become France's first Socialist president since Francois Mitterrand left office in 1995. Polls taken Sunday night continued to show Hollande is likely to best Sarkozy in their head-to-head matchup two weeks from now by around 10 percentage points - in line with the trend of most polls for months.

Both Hollande and Sarkozy resumed campaigning Monday after a two-day pause, with Sarkozy in the city of Tours in the Loire valley.

On Monday, Sarkozy suggested he'd be tacking at least somewhat to the right for the second round, in a bid to attract disgruntled National Front voters.

"National Front voters must be respected, they've expressed a choice. It's a vote of suffering, a vote of crisis. Why insult them?" Sarkozy said to reporters outside his Paris campaign headquarters.

"I say to them, I've heard you. I'll draw all the consequences," Sarkozy said. 