France Turns Left and Right

The early returns are in on the first round of the French Presidential elections, and they¡¦re no surprise: the Socialist candidate, Francois Hollande, comes out in first place, with just under twenty-nine per cent of the vote, followed by the incumbent President, Nicolas Sarkozy, of the moderate-right Union for a Popular Movement, with about twenty-six per cent (these are the latest figures from Le Monde). They¡¦ll face each other two weeks from today in a runoff. Throughout the campaign, they were running neck-and-neck, with Sarkozy slightly ahead until recently (though polls all along have shown Hollande winning handily in the second round).

Philip Gourevitch reported in the magazine in December on how Sarkozy got his Presidency off on the wrong foot soon after his election in 2007, and never really recovered in the public eye. The private lives of candidates have long been off-limits in French political debate, but, in the new world of modern media, attention is inescapable, and Sarkozy¡¦s highly publicized victory lap on a corporate tycoon¡¦s yacht¡Xas well as his romance with the singer and actress (and industrial heiress) Carla Bruni, whom he married in 2008¡Xrapidly conveyed the impression that he was simply out of touch with, and even cavalierly indifferent to, the working-class and middle-class voters who propelled him into office.

In electing Sarkozy in 2007, the French voted, in effect, for their Margaret Thatcher, but soon decided, likely prompted by the worldwide banking crisis, that their interests would be better protected by the state than by private enterprise. Also, French unions are strong, and many feared the disruptions that would result from waves of strikes¡Xas well as the social tensions that the implementation of Sarkozy¡¦s confrontational stance toward France¡¦s immigrant population would raise. (French regional elections in 2010 went overwhelmingly Socialist, and, in 2011, France¡¦s Senate gained a Socialist majority for the first time in history.) Continued high unemployment as well as a recent, highly publicized wave of factory closings and employees¡¦ acts of protest and resistance have heightened distrust of free-market economics and solidified support for Hollande, who comes across as a modest incarnation of their own ideal¡Xas a nice person and a bearer of a humane social conscience (not that either one is a bad thing). Even physically, the contrast is clear: Sarkozy looks like a blade and Hollande looks like a teddy bear.

The surprise is the score¡Xearlier reported at around twenty per cent, now running at eighteen and a half per cent¡Xgarnered by Marine Le Pen, of the far-right National Front, a party that has ranked among its leaders Vichy nostalgists and Holocaust skeptics. She was polling around fifteen per cent, but it appears that many of her supporters were simply unwilling to admit as much to a pollster. She militates against the ¡§Islamization¡¨ of France, advocates France¡¦s withdrawal from the European Union¡¦s open-borders policy, favors tight border controls to prevent the arrival of undocumented immigrants, and advocates a vigorous policy of deportation. She also takes a nationalist economic stance, proposing France¡¦s withdrawal from the euro. In January, she attended a Viennese ball held by far-right fraternities¡Xwhere, L¡¦Express reports, ¡§Holocaust deniers are applauded every year.¡¨

Well, she¡¦s not going to win; and France¡¦s next President seems likely to be a mild-mannered Socialist. But what will those voters be thinking, doing, and planning in the years to come?

Read more http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/movies/2012/04/france-turns-left-and-right.html#ixzz1uiEu99Bp
