Voters Fear Socialist Hollande in Posh Paris Suburb

Well-heeled voters flocked to polling stations in the posh Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine Sunday, anxious to try to keep Socialist Francois Hollande from office.

As fur-coated women walked small dogs on Neuilly¡¦s tree-lined streets, voters outside the main polling station at town hall said they were keen to see Nicolas Sarkozy, who cut his political teeth here as mayor, back in office.

¡§The hope is Sarkozy, the fear is Hollande,¡¨ said voter Jacques Jacquelin, 62, after casting his ballot in the majestic town hall where Sarkozy worked from 1983 to 2002 ¡X after being elected mayor at only 28.

Pollsters are predicting a narrow win for Hollande in Sunday¡¦s first round of the presidential vote and he is the clear favourite over incumbent Sarkozy in the second-round run-off on May 6.

But Neuilly, one of France¡¦s wealthiest communities, looks set to buck the national trend.

Long a symbol of the country¡¦s elite, the city of 60,000 backed Sarkozy with nearly 73 percent of the vote during the first round of the 2007 presidential election.

He then took 87 percent of the Neuilly vote in the second round against Socialist Segolene Royal.

Despite a reputation among Socialists as a moderate, Hollande has struck fear into the hearts of France¡¦s rich with calls to tax the wealthy, including a 75 percent rate on incomes over a million euros, and attacks on finance.

Voters here said they worried that Hollande would also be pushed further to the left under pressure from Communist-backed candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, who surged in opinion polls on a populist wave in the weeks before Sunday¡¦s vote.

¡§If Hollande gets through he will be taken hostage by Melenchon,¡¨ said 39-year-old Remi Quintin. ¡§Sarkozy is far from perfect, but he¡¦s the best choice possible.¡¨

Many voters expressed concerns over Hollande¡¦s economic policies and his lack of experience as he has never served in a top government post.

¡§Hollande has not proven himself,¡¨ Jacquelin said. ¡§What he says on the economic front -- I would be stunned if it were possible.¡¨

Voter Virginie Favre, 37, said she had backed Sarkozy and was also worried about Hollande¡¦s neophyte status.

¡§I wasn¡¦t convinced by Francois Hollande and I don¡¦t think he has the experience necessary,¡¨ she said.

Around midday on Sunday, a steady stream of voters could be seen going into polling stations at Neuilly¡¦s city hall, schools and community centres.

The mayor¡¦s office said turnout was high, amid better than expected participation figures from around the country.

While most Neuilly voters told AFP they were backing Sarkozy, some did say they were choosing Hollande.

After voting with his family at city hall, Philippe Ouakrat, 53, said he believed the country needed a change after five years of Sarkozy.

¡§I want the team to change, because I did not like these past five years,¡¨ he said. ¡§I chose Francois Hollande because he is a credible candidate.¡¨

But in Neuilly, even the rare Socialist voter was not voting for Hollande¡¦s economic plan. ¡§It¡¦s not much different from the UMP plan,¡¨ he shrugged.