Melenchon Rocks French Elections

Jean-Luc Melenchon, the far-left candidate in French presidential elections, is causing a stir as he fights for third place in Sunday¡¦s presidential elections.

That¡¦s a headache for the two leading candidates.

French voters go to the poll on Sunday to vote on a field of ten candidates of which two¡Vmost likely President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist challenger Francois Hollande¡Vwill qualify for the second round on May 6.

Polls show incumbent Mr. Sarkozy has close to zero chance of luring Melenchon voters in the second round.

Meanwhile, a strong far-left vote in the first round will reduce Socialist Francois Hollande¡¦s room to go fishing for center-ground votes in the second round. And, should Mr. Hollande win and later need to do some coalition building after legislative elections, reconciling an emboldened far-left with the center wouldn¡¦t be easy.

Political problems aside, Mr. Melenchon creates another problem for Mssrs Sarkozy and Hollande: he simply makes them look un-cool.

A poll of 1,140 people by research company Harris Interactive carried out Tuesday and Wednesday showed 21% of voters think Jean-Luc Melenchon is the most rock ¡¥n¡¦ roll candidate.

Sure, another far-left candidate, Philippe Poutou, also picked up a reasonable score at 14%. But Mr. Sarkozy is only rock ¡¥n¡¦ roll for 5% of voters, and Mr. Hollande really isn¡¦t at all at 1%.

The poll for radio station Oui FM also asked French people what rock ¡¥n¡¦ roll means for them. For 74% of those surveyed, being rock ¡¥n¡¦ roll is having a penchant for listening to rock music.

The French recognize it goes beyond music¡Vit¡¦s a way of being. So, for French people somebody is rock ¡¥n¡¦ roll if they are energetic, original, swimming against the tide, or provocative, the survey shows. The reference to energetic perhaps explains why Mr. Sarkozy, who has been dubbed a hyperkinetic President, did so much better than Mr. Hollande.

In any case, Mssrs Hollande and Sarkozy can take some relief from the survey: they¡¦re not alone. 45% of those polled said none of the candidates are rock ¡¥n¡¦ roll.