Hollande urges large turnout by French voters

PARIS (Reuters) - Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande urged a large turnout by French voters in the first round of the presidential election on Sunday, warning that mass abstention helped the far-right "enemy" eliminate the left from the contest 10 years ago.

Hollande, tipped in all polls to win the two-round election by a comfortable margin, fears that the positive predictions will lull his supporters into staying home on Sunday.

"I am assured of nothing and nobody can tell what the final order and scores will be," the 57-year-old said in a television interview three days from a ballot that will eliminate eight of 10 contenders before a runoff on May 6.

Hollande and conservative incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy are seen taking the top two spots, with far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen, who is ranked third in many surveys, hoping to repeat the election shock her father Jean-Marie Le Pen created when he qualified for the runoff in 2002.

Hollande, interviewed on BFM TV, said opinion polls right up to the same day in 2002 had shown the then Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin in second place, four or five points ahead of Jean-Marie Le Pen.

Three days later, Le Pen pipped Jospin by a point, sending the leader of the anti-immigrant National Front into the runoff, which conservative Jacques Chirac won thanks to votes from left-wingers who were urged to close ranks against Le Pen.

Hollande said he was haunted by the memory of 2002, when a large field of fringe candidates and a high abstention rate turned the final contest into what he called a standoff between Chirac and "the enemy of the republic, the extreme right".

Marine Le Pen, who took over from her father as head of the National Front at the start of last year, regularly ranks third in polls of voter intentions, behind Sarkozy and Hollande.

This time, she trails by a larger margin than her father did, if polls are to be relied upon.

In the latest 12 polls, Le Pen's predicted score is between 14 and 17 percent of the first round vote (with an average of 16), with Sarkozy taking between 24 and 29 percent (average 27), and Hollande between 26 and 30 percent (average 28).

Sarkozy enjoyed improved poll ratings following his official campaign start in mid-February and had even overtaken Hollande in the bulk of first-round score predictions before a sudden sharp plunge in poll performance last week.

On Thursday, Sarkozy, like Hollande, also said upsets were the stuff of French elections, in his case to be hoped for rather than feared.

"Let me remind you that there's never been a single election where the French people failed to spring a surprise," he said in an interview on Europe 1 radio.

The abstention rate in the first round of the 2002 election topped 28 percent.

Some polls in recent weeks have suggested the no-show rate could top 30 percent of France's near 45 million voters.