France Readies to Network Around Electoral Law

PARIS¡XDon't be surprised if your French friends start tweeting incongruously shortly before 8 p.m. on Sunday.

The flan is in the oven. The tomato is ripe. the Netherlands are beating Hungary at half time.

Get it?

If you didn't, this might help. The French are going to the polls on Sunday to pick their next president, and until the last polling station closes at 8 p.m., it is forbidden to release polls and preliminary results to avoid influencing voters and uphold fair play.

But because polling stations close at different times in France, some as early as 6 p.m., pollsters have a two-hour window to collect early results and make highly reliable projections. Those numbers are traditionally supplied to many reporters under embargo and aired at 8 p.m. sharp by France's main televisions and radios.

French media have traditionally abided by the rule. During the last French presidential election, in 2007, Swiss and Belgian media leaked early results, but their websites were immediately bogged down by an onslaught of impatient French citizens.

Earlier this week, the Paris prosecutor issued a statement to remind everybody of the law, although his message exceeded the Twitter limit of 140 characters. "By virtue of the clauses of article 11 of the law number 77-808 of July 19 1977 (modified by the law 2002-214 of February 19 2002), any form of publication, broadcast, poll commentary, by any means is forbidden," the prosecutor said.

France's Commission des Sondages, a state body which regulates the polling industry, has said it would set up a special team of experts to monitor websites, blogs and social networks, and immediately alert prosecutors if it spotted infringements.

Offenders risk a fine of up to £á75,000.

On Friday, rebellious Internet bloggers began laying the foundations of subversion by developing codes to circumvent the ban on publishing results before it is time.

So, if your French friend tweets "the Netherlands are beating Hungary at half time," he may actually mean that Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande has emerged from the first round of the election with a lead on French President Nicolas Sarkozy¡Xwho has Hungarian roots.

Likewise, the red of a tomato is a reference to far-left leader Jean-Luc Melenchon and his Communist backers. And Flan refers to Flanby, a wobbly flan-like dessert that has become a nickname for Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande.