Expatriates vote ahead of polls

Paris: French citizens living in Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina began voting early yesterday in France's presidential elections, 19 hours ahead of polls opening in France.

A polling station at the French consulate in Rio de Janeiro opened its doors at 8am local time (1100 GMT) and was scheduled to close at 6pm (2100 GMT).

"This is the first time that the French citizens living abroad don't vote on the same day as the rest of the French," said a French diplomat. "They will vote in the Americas and Antilles Islands on Saturday."

The new arrangement is designed to increase turnout because this time, the French living in the Western Hemisphere will be voting without knowing the results of polling in France. 

About 15,000 French nationals have registered to vote in Brazil, a 38 per cent increase over the election of 2007.

Meanwhile, French presidential candidates marked a one-day truce yesterday on the eve of voting in a first-round poll to whittle the ten-strong field down to two frontrunners. 

Political veterans

French election rules outlaw both campaigning and opinion polling on the last day of the race, but Socialist challenger Francois Hollande went into the weekend favourite to force out right-wing incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. The two 57-year-old political veterans are expected to win the two spots in the May 6 run-off, and polls suggest that the left-winger will comfortably win the battle to become one of the most powerful leaders in the world.

Parisians went about their business without being accosted by pamphleteers, the campaigns' websites, Facebook pages and Twitter feeds were left without updates and broadcasters had to find other subjects to interview.

But some hints of the campaigns' moods slipped past the censors.

"Lovely day," wrote Socialist Party spokesman Benoit Hamon on his personal Twitter account, linking to an upbeat song by Ella Fitzgerald, and tacitly suggesting that the left remains coolly confident.

A strong left

The left-wing daily Liberation emblazoned its front page with the headline "A strong left" against the backdrop of a blue ocean under open skies, mocking the slogan and imagery of Sarkozy's "A strong France" campaign.

The pro-Sarkozy Le Figaro stuck doggedly behind its champion, but doubts clouded its front page editorial, which warned all those thinking of voting far-right or centrist that second round would depend on the first.

Privately, Sarkozy's top supporters have begun to admit that if Sarkozy fails to regain the momentum and slip ahead of Hollande today, he will have too much ground left to make up before the May 6 showdown. 