French presidential hopefuls eye far-right votes

KIM LANDERS: France's political class has been stunned by the success of the far right candidate in the first round of voting in the French presidential elections.

In a poll dominated by economic concerns, about one-fifth of the vote has gone to the National Front's Marine Le Pen.

President Nicolas Sarkozy has finished in second place to the Socialist Party's Francois Hollande meaning he could become the first president not to win a second term since 1981.

It's been enough of a scare to force president Sarkozy to try to court some of the right wing supporters.

Lexi Metherell reports.

(Crowd singing)

LEXI METHERELL: Before the poll, Marine Le Pen said victory for her would be equalling her father's first round presidential vote count of about 17 per cent in 2002.

Well, it seems she's surpassed that. Early counting suggests almost one in every five voters cast their ballot for the far right candidate.

She has come in in third place - out of the final runoff ballot, but she told her supporters, the result is a stepping stone to future electoral success.

MARINE LE PEN (translation): This first round isn't the end but the beginning of a vast coming-together of patriots of the right and the left, lovers of France and the defenders of its identity, the lovers of the French exception.

(Cheering)

LEXI METHERELL: And her supporters are optimistic too.

NATIONAL FRONT SUPPORTER (translation): Before we were more of an anti-establishment vote, especially with Jean-Marie Le Pen. It was more of a rant. Now there really is a vote of agreement. The French like the party program. They want to have the program. I think we're going to see in the years to come, real progress for the National Front and its leaders.

LEXI METHERELL: The rest of the French political class though is reeling. Marine Le Pen's anti-immigrant campaign concerns some voters.

MARIE LAURE-TREPP (translation): Yes, the percentage of votes for Marine Le Pen is worrying me a lot because it means there is a huge group of people who are angry and who can't find in moderate political parties the answers to their questions.

LEXI METHERELL: And in a sign of how Marine Le Pen's strong performance will affect France's political debate, the president Nicolas Sarkozy has already begun trying to court her supporters.

NICOLAS SARKOZY (translation): These fears, this suffering, I understand them. They are about the respect of our borders, the determined battle against losing jobs overseas, immigration control, increasing the status of labour, security for people and their families.

LEXI METHERELL: President Sarkozy is possibly the biggest loser.

His second place means he's the first incumbent not to finish on top in the initial round of voting in a French presidential election in more than 50 years.

Counting is continuing but it appears Sarkozy has been beaten by a narrow margin by the socialist candidate Francois Hollande.

But Nicolas Sarkozy is fighting on. In a rousing speech he challenged his rival to three debates before the final poll instead of the usual one.

NICOLAS SARKOZY (translation): My dear countrymen, with a participation rate above 80 per cent the French people have shown they understand the historical choice they need to make in this presidential election. The French have carried out a civic act and, by doing this they have proved wrong all predictions and disproved all prognoses.

LEXI METHERELL: The Socialist Party says it's now clear 75 per cent of French people want a new leader.

Francois Hollande says the result is an indictment on president Sarkozy's five years in office.

FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (translation): This is an act of confidence in the project I presented to the French people: to restore justice to our nation, and they responded this evening by allowing me to be today the front-runner to become the next president of the Republic.

LEXI METHERELL: The big question now is who Marine Le Pen's supporters will turn to - if they turn out at all - for the runoff vote due on May the 6th.

KIM LANDERS: Lexi Metherell. 