Socialist Hollande edges Sarkozy in French vote

PARIS - The Socialist candidate, Francois Hollande, won a narrow victory in Sunday・s first round of France・s presidential elections, riding promises of economic growth and a general dislike for the incumbent, Nicolas Sarkozy, into a favorable position before a runoff with Sarkozy on May 6.

The strong showing by the left and anger on the political extremes seemed to reflect a desire for change in France after 17 years of centrist, conservative presidents.

It may also represent the first stirrings of a challenge to the German-dominated narrative of the euro crisis, which holds that public debt and runaway spending are the main culprits and that austerity must precede growth. 

The French vote ：is a reaction against austerity, and austerity is you,・・ Hollande・s campaign manager, Pierre Moscovici, said to the leader of Sarkozy・s party, Jean-Francois Cope.

Hollande has said he would increase spending - creating state jobs for teachers and the police and subsidizing job creation in industry - and later raise taxes. Sarkozy, 57, has put his emphasis on spending cuts, reducing the tax burden on companies, and liberalizing the labor market.

Hollande finished with 28.5 percent of the ballots cast and Sarkozy with 27.1 percent, according to figures released by the Interior Ministry after the last polls closed.

They were followed by Marine Le Pen of the far-right National Front with 18.2 percent, Jean-Luc Melenchon of the Left Front party with 11.1 percent, the centrist Francois Bayrou with 9.1 percent and five other candidates with minimal support.

Although Sarkozy・s total was only about a percentage point short of Hollande・s, the view of most experts has been that unless Sarkozy took the first round, he would have a hard time winning the runoff.

The strong showing by Le Pen gave some heart Sunday night to Sarkozy・s supporters, since the two share similar themes about immigration, radical Islam, and law and order.

But a number of Le Pen voters have said they will abstain or vote against Sarkozy in the second round.

：This is an election that will weigh on the future of Europe,・・ Hollande, 57, said after voting. ：That・s why many people are watching us. They・re wondering not so much what the winner・s name will be, but especially what policies will follow.・・

Under a gray sky and amid intermittent showers, many voters in Paris expressed the sense of deep ambivalence that had been reflected in the months leading up to Sunday・s contest.

Neither of the two front-runners had managed to rally significant support behind his party or his program, setting the stage for the stronger-than-usual result for fringe parties on the left and on the right.

Hollande has sought to present himself as a ：normal・・ candidate in contrast to the brusque, ：hyper-presidency・・ of Sarkozy. But although the incumbent has seen his popularity sink, along with the economy, to record lows, his main rival has run a timid campaign that presents few major new initiatives.

：Everyone is voting but no one is excited,・・ said Herve Thiery, 59, a flea-market vendor on the Avenue de Flandre in Paris・s working-class 19th arrondissement.

John Hustaix, a 24-year-old student, said he had wanted to abstain but voted reluctantly for Sarkozy, largely out of concern that uncertainty about the consequences of a Hollande victory might spark financial market turmoil.

：Nobody knows exactly what・s going to happen whoever is elected,・・ Hustaix said. ：Hollande is not going to be able to enforce his program, and Sarkozy didn・t disclose specifics on what he is going to do, aside from immigration and security.・・

This year・s contest contrasts sharply with elections five years ago, when three out of four French voters supported the mainstream. That campaign・s ：third man・・ was Bayrou, who garnered 18 percent of first-round votes.

In this election, surveys suggest Bayrou・s supporters will probably be split fairly evenly in the second round between Sarkozy and Hollande.

A victory by Hollande next month would bode a change in direction for France, as Hollande himself acknowledged after casting his vote on Sunday in Tulle, the capital of his Correze constituency in central France. 