Marine Le Pen's far-right surge has Sarkozy scrambling in French presidential vote 

National Front leader Marine Le Pen won a surprise 19 per cent of this morning's first-round vote, making her supporters the most important swing vote in the May 6 run-off between Mr Sarkozy and his Socialist Party challenger Francois Hollande.

Mr Hollande is strongly favoured to deliver France's first centre-left presidential victory in 24 years after leading the first round vote with 28 per cent compared to the centre-right Mr Sarkozy's 26.9 per cent with 79 per cent of votes counted.

Mr Hollande is expected to win the overwhelming support of the 11 per cent of voters who backed the far left's Jean-Luc Melenchon and the 2 per cent who supported the Green candidate Eva Joly, and crucially he also has a strong chance of winning about half the supporters of Ms Le Pen and the centrist Francois Bayrou, who finished fifth with just under 9 per cent.

The strength of Ms Le Pen's vote was the biggest surprise of the night as it almost doubled the 10.4 percent that her father Jean-Marie Le Pen won against Sarkozy in 2007.

The vote for the xenophobic National Front even surpassed the 16.8 per cent won by Marine Le Pen's father, the National Front's founder, in 2002 when he edged out the mainstream Socialist Party's candidate to reach the final two-man run-off.

The bad news for the major parties and France's European allies is that almost one in three French voters opted for the extremist candiates of the left or right, who both oppose the European Union and its attempts to bail out the Euro common currency.

Mr Sarkozy, 57, is in such a weak position going into the final two weeks of campaigning that Ms Le Pen, 43, is hoping that his demoralised centre-right party will fracture after the presidential elections allowing her own anti-immigration party to pick of more support in crucial parliamentary elections in two months' time.

Her unprecedented feat of convincing one in five French voters to vote for the far right has been helped by France's high unemployment and poor economy and it vindicates her long-term strategy of presenting a slightly less radical stance than her father to try to usurp the mainstream centre-right.

"Millions of French people this evening have begun to resist, this is only the beginning - let's go on fighting," she told a rally of supporters.

"Now for us everything is possible this is the way to restore the pride of being French at last."

Mr Sarkozy immediately made his own pitch for voters worried about globalisation, immigration and the pace of economic and social change, telling a party rally minutes after the first results were declared that the main issue of the run-off election would be which candidate could best preserve the French way of life.

"The French people expressed their worries, their sufferings, facing this new world that is coming through, " he said.

"These fears, these sufferings: I know them, I understand them, they carry with them the respect of our borders, a determined fight against delocalisation, handling of immigration, better value given to work and security for them and their families.

"I know that in this world which is evolving so fast the main worry of our compatriots is to preserve their way of life, this is the central question in this election."

"The crucial time has now come, we have to put face to face these two (policy platforms) and these two personalities, we have to choose the one who will be in charge of our country, who will have to protect the French people for the next five years." Mr Hollande has so far so succeeded in making the election a referendum on the unpopular Mr Sarkozy rather a clear choice between their competing policy platforms and personalities.

In a bid to shatter that strategy Mr Sarkozy greeted the first-round results by challenging Mr Hollande to a series of televised debates.

"I offer three debates between the two candidates on the matters of the economy, society and international questions," Mr Sarkozy said. "The French people have a right to truth and clarity and nobody can escape that."

"Then everybody can make a choice knowing what it is all about.

"I am asking all those who oppose uncontrolled increases in public spending and those who do not want France to have the same fate as so many of our neighbours in Europe, who have been victims of the economic crisis, I call all those to unite around me."

Mr Hollande said he was the candidate of change, promising to end what he called the immoral politics of the Mr Sarkozy era, including the president's adoption of the National Front's anti-immigration message.

"We have to get back the French trust in politics and in the morality of policy and give an answer to the legitimate anger that appeared through this vote," he said.

Voters were angry at unemployment, insecurity and the "indecent income of some," he said, pointing to his campaign promise to lift the highest rate of income tax from 45 percent to 75 percent for those earning more than one million Euros a year.

Mr Hollande said that if elected he would "offer a reorientation of Europe towards growth and employment" rather than fiscal austerity.

Mr Sarkozy was the first president running for re-election since the introduction of France's current political system in 1958 who has failed to win the first round of voting.