Sarkozy era hangs by a thread as France votes

Voting is underway in the first round of the French presidential election that is expected to end of Nicolas Sarkozy's turbulent term in office.

Polls put Mr Sarkozy behind his socialist rival Francois Hollande, who has emerged as the clear favourite.

Mr Sarkozy has warned that if Mr Hollande becomes president the country will face an immediate economic crisis.

He says his rival is inexperienced and weak-willed and would spark panic on financial markets with reckless spending pledges.

But Mr Hollande says Mr Sarkozy has trapped France in a downward spiral of austerity and job losses.

The French public is also unhappy with Mr Sarkozy's personality, which many complain is too brash.

"I want the team to change, because I did not like these past five years," said Philippe Ouakrat, 53.

"I chose Francois Hollande because he is a credible candidate."

But not all voters were steering clear of the president.

"The hope is Sarkozy, the fear is Hollande," said voter Jacques Jacquelin, 62.

"Hollande has not proven himself."

Mr Sarkozy and his former supermodel wife Carla Bruni voted in Paris' plush 16th district, a stronghold of his party.

Mr Sarkozy smiled and shook hands with election officials and voters before being driven off without making any comment to the dozens of journalists present.

Mr Hollande cast his vote at a polling station in Tulle in the central Correze region, where he is the local parliamentary representative and heads the regional council.

"I am attentive, engaged, but first of all respectful," he told journalists.

"The day ahead will be a long one, this is an important moment."

The results of the first round should be known early on Monday morning (local time).

Mr Sarkozy and Mr Hollande, both aged 57, are almost certain to be the two candidates for the second round of polls.

The May 6 run-off will decide who runs what is commonly regarded as the world's fifth greatest power for the next five years.

Mr Sarkozy needs a victory in the first round to give him fresh momentum.

The race will include a head-to-head televised debate that could be Mr Sarkozy's last chance to change his fortunes.

In all, 10 candidates are in the race. Mr Hollande and Mr Sarkozy are trailed by far-right flag-bearer Marine Le Pen, hard-left firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon, veteran centrist Francois Bayrou and a handful of outsiders.

More than 44 million voters are registered but pollsters predict around 25 per cent will abstain, a high level by the standards of a French presidential poll and a source of worry to the candidates, especially Mr Hollande.