Sarkozy Fights for Survival 

PARIS¡XPresident Nicolas Sarkozy was thrust into a fight for his political survival after lagging behind Socialist candidate Francois Hollande in the first round of France's presidential poll.

Voters must now choose between Mr. Sarkozy, the 57-year-old incumbent who says he has the experience and energy to steer France clear of Europe's sovereign debt crisis, and Mr. Hollande, also 57, an affable career politician who promises a more regal, conciliatory air in the Elysee presidential palace.

One crucial question is whether Mr. Sarkozy will be able to lure the 18.0% of voters who chose far right leader Marine Le Pen. Polls show that a large portion of people who voted for Ms. Le Pen in the first round may abstain in the second round rather than vote for Mr. Sarkozy.

France's choice has large implications for the rest of Europe. Until now, the country has conformed to Germany's austerity recipe for tackling the crisis. But Mr. Hollande, who is favored to win the May 6 runoff, has urged his neighbors to spend more to achieve economic growth.

"My responsibility, and I know that I am being watched beyond our borders, is to reorient Europe on the path of growth and job creation," Mr. Hollande told supporters on Sunday.

Another European development over the weekend underlined signs that more Europeans were rebelling against the frugality that has dominated the continent's response to its sovereign debt crisis. In the Netherlands, talks over measures to slash the Dutch government's budget deficit collapsed after seven weeks of negotiations.

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said early elections were an "obvious" outcome.

Since Greece ran into financial trouble more than two years ago, followed by Ireland and Portugal, the euro zone¡Xled by Germany¡Xhas imposed fiscal discipline as the main response to restore the public finances of debt-laden nations. Throughout the crisis, the Netherlands has been one of the most vociferous supporters of that policy.

Although the French government frequently called for better balancing fiscal discipline and euro-zone solidarity, Mr. Sarkozy sided with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to make sure all members of the monetary union stuck to a stringent diet.

However, amid the deep spending cuts, including slashing pension benefits and civil servant pay, euro-zone countries are slowing and investors have been concerned about the ability of nations such as Spain and Italy to finance their budget deficits in the bond markets.

The Dutch economy is performing poorly and is expected to shrink this year, expanding its budget deficit and making it one of the worst performing in the euro zone.

Following the weekend political developments in France and the Netherlands, the German-inspired fiscal pact, agreed by euro-zone leaders in Brussels in December, could also be delayed or thrown into question.

In a U-turn from his earlier stance, Mr. Sarkozy has used recent campaign rallies to call for changing the course of euro-zone policies to ensure they are also designed to stimulate growth.

Analysts are divided whether the disease of big budget deficits or the current prescription of budget cuts is the major problem.

"What's clear is that there is mounting anxiety over economic growth," said Nicolas Veron, an economist with the Brussels-based Bruegel think tank.

France's election results showed Mr. Hollande taking 28.6% of the vote to Mr. Sarkozy's 27.1%.

Ms. Le Pen's result was far better than polls predicted and above the showing of her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, when he qualified for the second round of the presidential election in 2002. It suggests Mr. Sarkozy has failed to attract far-right voters, despite his focus on law and order and his pledge to halve immigration if re-elected.

In 2007, Mr. Sarkozy had succeeded in drawing support from far-right voters in the first round, by clearly campaigning to the right, proposing to create a ministry of national identity and vowing to deport illegal immigrants.

"Mr. Sarkozy has bet he could replay the 2007 election," said Emiliano Grossman of Sciences Po University in Paris. "The figures show he has failed."

Ms. Le Pen didn't call on her supporters to back Mr. Sarkozy and said "tonight, the blue wave is rocking the establishment," referring to her first name, which translates as navy blue.

Mr. Sarkozy, an indefatigable campaigner, said he would fight in the next two weeks. "I will use all the energy I have," he told supporters on Sunday evening. In a clear attempt to appeal to far-right voters, Mr. Sarkozy said he would campaign around three key themes: cracking down on immigration, respecting France's borders and seeking to keep French production local.

Sunday's result underscores the deep disaffection with Mr. Sarkozy among voters.

Outside of France, Mr. Sarkozy has cast himself as a central leader in tackling a host of emergencies, from the global financial crisis to the euro sovereign-debt disorder and the war in Libya. At home, however, he suffers from the perceived inconsistency of his economic policies, economists say.

Mr. Sarkozy was elected in 2007 on the promise that he would energize France's economy, shrink its large public sector and halve the unemployment rate to 5%. But when the global financial crisis struck in 2008, Mr. Sarkozy relied on debt to support banks and auto makers and to preserve the country's generous social-welfare system.

Although Mr. Sarkozy says he has succeeded in avoiding the pitfalls of Greece, Ireland and Portugal, which had to seek international help, he has failed to deliver on his electoral promises: Unemployment is at a 13-year high of nearly 10% and public debt is nearly 90% of the country's annual output, up from 64% in 2007.

Sunday's result is an important endorsement of Mr. Hollande, emboldening the French Left's best chance of winning a presidential election in 24 years.

To help boost economic growth, Mr. Hollande has proposed launching pan-European investment programs in areas such as renewable energy and transport, and financing those projects with commonly issued European bonds.

Mr. Hollande has said his goal would be to heal rifts in France and turn a page on what he described as Mr. Sarkozy's "divisive" style.

Heading into the second round, Mr. Hollande can rely on support from Jean-Luc Melenchon, the far-left candidate who took 11.1% of the vote. 