An uninspiring French election

High quality global journalism requires investment. Please share this article with others using the link below, do not cut & paste the article. See our Ts&Cs and Copyright Policy for more detail. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e9853fe2-8d3a-11e1-9798-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1udgdjuEu

Observers have been quick to point out the unprecedented nature of Nicolas Sarkozy¡¦s defeat in the first round of the French presidential elections. No incumbent has failed to lead the field at this stage since direct elections were inaugurated in 1965. 

High quality global journalism requires investment. Please share this article with others using the link below, do not cut & paste the article. See our Ts&Cs and Copyright Policy for more detail. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e9853fe2-8d3a-11e1-9798-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1udggGVGo

But whether or not the symbolism of his defeat has humbled the president, simple voting arithmetic suggests that he is far from down and out. Indeed, given the way the votes fell, with Mr Sarkozy trailing the winner, Francois Hollande, more narrowly than expected, and the Front National outpolling the far left by a wide margin, it is in some ways easier to construct a majority for the right in the second round than vice versa. 

High quality global journalism requires investment. Please share this article with others using the link below, do not cut & paste the article. See our Ts&Cs and Copyright Policy for more detail. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e9853fe2-8d3a-11e1-9798-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1udgi4rwu

Mr Sarkozy has already indicated what his pitch will be in the run-off, hinting at the ¡§chaos¡¨ that would ensue were Mr Hollande to assume the presidency because of what the president sees as the challenger¡¦s aversion to austerity. ¡§France does not have the right to make a mistake,¡¨ Mr Sarkozy said.

The markets may have wobbled after the first round, but Mr Hollande is hardly a rabid socialist. One can argue that he does not have the correct policies. For instance, his fiscal plans would leave public spending at a higher level than Mr Sarkozy¡¦s, funded by higher taxes. But the differences are fairly marginal. Even some of Mr Hollande¡¦s eye-catching pledges, such as to roll back Mr Sarkozy¡¦s pension reform, turn out on closer inspection to be tinkering, not real changes of direction.

On Europe, Mr Sarkozy has criticised the challenger¡¦s desire to renegotiate the fiscal treaty agreed this year, but the differences between the two are again blurred. While Mr Sarkozy would stand by the treaty, he has called for the European Central Bank to play a bigger role in promoting growth within the eurozone. Both proposals are likely to meet a similarly chilly response in Berlin.

The truth is that neither candidate has conjured a compelling vision. The problem for Mr Sarkozy is that the lack of a clear policy contrast turns the run-off into a personality contest that becomes harder for him to win. While Mr Hollande does not inspire, he does not seem to enervate so many of his fellow countrymen as the president does.

In 2007 Mr Sarkozy ran for office promising wrenching free-market reform. Five years on, he may only prevail by wooing the supporters of Marine Le Pen ¡V no backers of ¡§rupture¡¨. Whatever the outcome, the narrowing of horizons does not bode well for France.