France election: shares hit as Hollande wins first round

French shares and bonds suffered on Monday after Socialist candidate Francois Hollande (pictured) took a narrow lead over Nicolas Sarkozy, the centre-right incumbent, in the first round of French presidential elections.

France's CAC 40 index dropped 57 points, or 1.8%, to 3,131 in the wake of the poll, in which Sarkozy won only 27.1% of the vote, while Hollande took 28.6%. Marine Le Pen, the far-right candidate, received a surprisingly high 18.1%, the highest her National Front party has ever won.

The yield, or implied interest rate, on benchmark 10-year French government bonds rose three basis points to 3.12%, nearing Friday¡¦s three-month high of 3.18%, as the euro weakened 0.39% versus the dollar to $1.314.
¡¥Balkanisation of Western Europe¡¦

¡¥The more important point is that this really highlights an extension of the Balkanisation of Western Europe, typified by the rise of single issue and nationalist parties, said Marc Ostwald, strategist at Monument Securities.

He was referring to the sharp rise in support for the far-right, which he said was ¡¥born of a deep-seated disenchantment with modern politicians, and diametrically opposed to [German chancellor Angela] Merkel's federalist view of Europe's future.¡¦

Meanwhile, Dutch bond yields surged after the government of the Netherlands ¡V a ¡¥core¡¦ eurozone member ¡V failed to agree on budget cuts, pushing the country towards elections.

¡¥The first round of the French presidential elections and political turmoil in the Netherlands could mark the beginning of new controversies on the eurozone¡¦s crisis management,¡¦ said strategists at ING.
Offer for Cable and Wireless Worldwide

Britain¡¦s FTSE 100 index of blue-chip shares shed 1.68%, or 97 points, to 5,675 and the All Share index lost 1.6%, or 48 points, to 2,953. See the FTSE¡¦s performance and the index¡¦s top winners and losers.

Resources stocks fell as commodities prices retreated, amid fears that Europe¡¦s debt crisis would further sap global growth and following a survey that showed China¡¦s manufacturing sector was still contracting.