The French have two days to decide on their political preferences and cast their ballots for which of the 10 presidential candidates they think will suit them best, in the first round of the election, due on April 22nd.

It was only once in the history of the Fifth Republic that General Charles de Gaulle won the election in the first round in 1958. Nor is there an obvious leader in this year・s election. According to sociological surveys, the Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and Francois Hollande of the 

Socialist Party are running neck and neck. Hollande grew popular due to the sliding popularity of Sarkozy, who・s held responsible for the economic crisis. Unemployment figures have grown by 730,000 over the term of his presidency. The second round has been set for May 6th

Socialist candidate Francois Hollande edged past incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy in the first round of France・s presidential election held on Sunday.  

Sarkozy bagged 27.1% of the vote, but Hollande won 28.6%, to mark the first time an incumbent president has lost in the first round. Voter turnout was estimated at 80%.

Although Hollande won by a slim margin, the victory provides him momentum for the second round of voting on May 6.

The far-right National Front led by Marine Le Pen secured third place by securing a surprising 18% of the votes, the biggest share in the party・s history. One of the key agendas of the party is to return to using the franc and abandon the euro.

According to analysts, Sarkozy must make efforts to win over Le Pen・s supporters if he is to retain the presidency. However, Hollande remains the most likely candidate to emerge victorious, which would give France a socialist leadership for the first time in a generation.

The president began wooing Le Pen's supporters on Monday by saying, "there was this crisis vote that doubled from one election to another - an answer must be given to this crisis vote".

Opinion polls conducted on Sunday after voting have indicated that 48-60% of Le Pen・s supporters would vote for Sarkozy in the second round. However, pollsters also foresee a substantial abstention rate on May 6 and Hollande winning the round by a comfortable margin.

Following the results, the Socialist candidate said that he is best placed to become the next president of the republic. He said, "The choice is simple, either continue with policies that have failed with a divisive incumbent candidate or raise France up again with a new, unifying president." 