Hollande beats Sarkozy, but one in five vote for Le Pen

Read more: http://www.theweek.co.uk/europe/french-elections/46440/hollande-beats-sarkozy-one-five-vote-le-pen#ixzz1ukgUYlE9


SOCIALIST candidate Francois Hollande has his foot in the door of the Elysee Palace after winning the first round of the presidential election yesterday. President Nicolas Sarkozy became the first incumbent in 50 years to lose a first round vote.

Their results were not unexpected. What came as a surprise was the record vote in favour of Marine Le Pen, the candidate of the far-right Front National, whom one-in-five voters supported, and who commentators now believe is a mainstream political force.

Hollande won 28.6 per cent of the vote, Sarkozy 27.1 per cent and Le Pen 18 per cent. Jean-Luc Melenchon, the candidate of the far-left coalition Front de Gauche, won 11.1 per cent.

Polls suggest that Hollande will easily win the second round, which takes place on 6 May. While Melenchon has all-but endorsed Hollande by calling on supporters to do everything they can to beat Sarkozy, Le Pen has warned her own supporters - who might otherwise be expected to vote for the remaining right-wing candidate - not to vote for a man "who is already history".

The question now is, what can Sarkozy do to tempt Front National voters to turn out for him against the wishes of their leader?

A Guardian editorial today sees little hope for Sarko. "Miracles can happen in the second round of a French presidential election and on Sunday's figures Nicolas Sarkozy needs one," it observes. "A president seeking re-election has never come second in the first round and won."

Sarkozy's pool of potential votes from defeated candidates, the paper notes, is smaller than Hollande's: it is not in Le Pen's long-term interests for Sarkozy to survive.  

Le Pen, says The Guardian, has turned an extremist party into a populist and republican party. "She now wants to convert that electoral success into a sizeable presence in the French national assembly. Voting for a losing president and yesterday's man would not necessarily be in her party's interest."

Henry Samuel in The Daily Telegraph saw Le Pen's success as a vindication of her bid "to tone down the far-right party her father founded". By adopting an anti-euro, protectionist, patriotic agenda, she stole support from Sarkozy's mainstream centre-right UMP party.

Meanwhile, at Hollande's headquarters, the BBC's Christian Fraser says that the victorious Socialist party will take nothing for granted. They still remember that in 1995 Lionel Jospin lost a first-round lead to the eventual winner, Jacques Chirac. "Greater efforts will be made in the next week to get out the vote," he writes.

The Times has no worries about tempting fate and believes Hollande has the presidency in the bag. Looking to a post-Sarkozy future, a leader notes that while Angela Merkel and Sarkozy ¡V or ¡§Merkozy¡¨, as the double act has been dubbed - have helped to reassure the financial markets of "both steel and dynamism" at the heart of the eurozone, "Merkande, or perhaps Frangela, could be a different prospect".

While Merkel demands austerity, the Frenchman wants to increase government spending. Just when the troubled eurozone needs "dynamic and forceful leadership", it looks in danger of slipping away.

Read more: http://www.theweek.co.uk/europe/french-elections/46440/hollande-beats-sarkozy-one-five-vote-le-pen#ixzz1ukgXM500
