France's election is shocked into life by the fringe performances

For weeks, the French media complained about the presidential campaign: it was boring, predictable, disconnected from the real issues. There was so much fatigue about Nicolas Sarkozy that Francois Hollande would win without saying much about anything. The French would not bother to go and vote in the midst of school holidays. The whole process seemed endless, and there would be no major surprise.

Well, the chattering class was wrong. About 80% of the enlisted voters have made their choice clear. As expected, Hollande is ahead of Sarkozy ¡V it is the first time in the modern era that a sitting president seeking re-election has lost the first round (in 1981 Giscard d'Estaing had more votes than Mitterrand, who eventually defeated him on the second round).

But the shock has come from the fringes. Jean-Luc Melenchon, the wonderboy of the extreme left, did not perform as well as predicted. Openly disappointed, he asked his supporters to switch to Hollande, but he will take advantage of any social unrest in the coming months to weigh in on the political scene. Underrated in the polls, Marine Le Pen has done better than her father: she has managed to gather 7 million people to protest against the system, against the elites, against the traditional parties, left and right, against immigrants, Europe and globalisation. This is the protest vote Sarkozy did not succeed in wooing, in spite of the radicalisation of his own campaign. Hollande has clearly succeeded in transforming this presidential election into a referendum against Sarkozy, and will stick to the same tactics for the two weeks to come. As for the centre, Francois Bayrou has lost half of the votes he gained five years ago, not even reaching 10%.

"Now the real campaign begins!" both Sarkozy and Hollande exclaimed last night. The Socialist candidate is clearly positioning himself as the winner of the contest, and therefore the champion of national consensus. He is already accusing his opponent of having encouraged the Front National by using the same arguments, and will argue he is the only shield against extremism. Having received last night the support of the Greens and Melenchon, he may appeal to those voters in the centre who are already discouraged by Sarkozy's arguments. But he also has to take into account the protesters, those people who used to vote on the left, now despair of traditional parties and found Le Pen more open to their concerns.

As for the incumbent president, he has no choice but to try and conquer back those voters who had voted for him five years ago and now opted for the extreme right. Le Pen will not express any preference ¡V it's like choosing between the plague and cholera, one of her advisers commented last night. Immigration, security, protectionism: the conservative candidate will have to stick to rhetoric similar to the Front National to find a rebound. One issue will be particularly tricky for him: Europe, the target of all protest votes. Sarkozy has already questioned the Schengen free movement treaty, and the role of the European Central Bank, but how far can he go questioning the EU and the euro without contradicting his own policies as president?

Sarkozy is a formidable campaigner, and he is looking forward to confronting Hollande face to face. So far his challenger has been clever enough to slide out of reach and remain evasive on most issues. The tradition has been for one TV debate between the two ballots. Sarkozy is asking for more, hoping to demonstrate he masters the job better than a candidate who doesn't even have a government experience.

Until the second round on 6 May, the campaign will be rough. Populism is on the rise, and the most difficult issues ¡V the need for structural reforms, public debt, an overgenerous welfare system ¡V are likely, once again, not to be discussed. Sarkozy's supporters try and convince themselves there is still a chance. Behind the scene, Hollande's advisers start fighting for government positions. The first polls about the second round show Hollande at 54%, Sarkozy at 46%. There are two weeks to go.