French bond yields rise as Sarkozy fails to take lead

FRENCH borrowing costs yesterday rose at a sale of 84-day bills after opposition candidate Francois Hollande scraped a win in the first round in the presidential election, beating incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy.

France sold ａ3,98bn of securities maturing on July 19 at an average yield of 0,090%, compared with 0,084% at a sale of the same maturity bills on April 10.

Mr Hollande, a Socialist, won the first round with 28,6% while Mr Sarkozy・s 27,2% score made him the first incumbent not to lead in the first round. Anti-immigrant National Front leader Marine le Pen got 17,9%, a record for the party. They square off on May 6.

France sold ａ8bn in debt on April 19 as risks linked to the French presidential election drove up borrowing costs. The amount sold was at the maximum target set by the debt-management body Agence France Tresor. France sold benchmark five-year debt at an average yield of 1,83%, up from 1,78% on March 15.

The risk for investors is that the National Front・s performance will make the next president reluctant to embrace policies needed to revamp the economy just as other European leaders try to prevent a new round of market turmoil from Spain.

French government bonds handed investors a 1,2% loss this month, making them the third-worst performer, after Spanish and Italian debt, according to data. German bonds returned 0,8% in the period.

The presidential race was thrown open by Ms le Pen・s performance, which highlighted voters・ angst in the face of unemployment at a 12-year high, immigration and a worsening debt crisis in the euro zone. While Mr Hollande・s first-round lead was narrower than polls predicted, Mr Sarkozy must now appeal to National Front supporters without alienating more moderate voters.

"He・s going to have to hunt right-wing voters," said Antonio Barroso, a political analyst at Eurasia Group in London. "That・s a bad dynamic for the second round when you normally want to capture the centre and unite the country."

About 57% of Le Pen voters will back Mr Sarkozy in the second round, while 23% will abstain and 20% will back Mr Hollande, according to a BVA survey. Another poll, by CSA and Harris Interactive, said Mr Hollande would beat Mr Sarkozy by 56% to 44% in the final round.

Ms le Pen・s showing surpassed the 16,9% that propelled her father into the second round in 2002 and came after a campaign in which she slammed Mr Sarkozy and Mr Hollande as "Siamese twins" who offered no solutions to France・s problems. Her performance channelled voter concerns about foreign workers taking French jobs, terrorism and the global financial crisis.

The risk for investors is that he may now be tempted to step up his criticism of the European Central Bank (ECB) in a bid to boost his pro-growth credentials, said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.

"Stronger calls for a ．growth mandate for the ECB・ and the like may not go down well in Berlin and Frankfurt," he said. 