Le Pen's strong result shocks French rivals 

THE shock strong showing of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in the first round of the French presidential elections presents problems for the two main candidates and is expected to force the rhetoric of President Nicolas Sarkozy even further to the right.

Ms Le Pen, a lawyer and mother of three, won 18 per cent of the vote, the National Front's best result. It tops even the historic 17 per cent that saw her father, party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, catapulted into the second round of voting in 2002, and confirms her as a major influence in French politics.

''The battle for France has only just begun ¡K nothing will be as before,'' she told her cheering supporters.
Advertisement: Story continues below

''We have exploded the monopoly of the two [main] parties of banks, finance, of multinationals, of resignation and abandonment, and carried higher than ever before the hopes of national ideas.

''Faced with an incumbent President at the head of a considerably weakened party, we are the only opposition to the ultra-liberal, lax and libertarian left.''

More than half of National Front voters must vote for Mr Sarkozy in the second round if he is to stand a chance of beating Francois Hollande, whom current polls indicate will be at least 10 points ahead.

A poll by Logica Business Consulting and four French media organisations of 1090 people found that of Ms Le Pen's first-round supporters, 60 per cent would vote for Mr Sarkozy, 18 per cent for Socialist front-runner Mr Hollande and 22 per cent would abstain.

But another poll, by market research firm CSA, found that only 52 per cent of Le Pen voters would switch to Mr Sarkozy, with as many as 27 per cent backing Mr Hollande.

The findings of both polls pointed to a clear Hollande victory in the second round.

Political analyst Gerard Grunberg said that Mr Sarkozy's ''fate is in the hands of Marine Le Pen and she will do nothing to help him - on the contrary''.

Ms Le Pen has said she will make an announcement on May 1 about the second round of voting, scheduled to take place on May 6.

Ms Le Pen's long-term political strategy depends on the demise of the President's party. She hopes to form a broader right-wing coalition by eroding Mr Sarkozy's Union for a Popular Movement (UMP in French).

The second surprise at the weekend was an Ipsos poll indicating that her party's support base was much younger than in previous elections - 48 per cent of those who voted for her were between 25 and 44.

She has worked hard to shed the party's reputation for racism and anti-Semitism, and played to blue-collar unemployed with her mix of patriotism and protectionism. She had promised to pull France out of the euro, cut legal immigration to 10,000 a year and remove France from the European Union's passport-free Schengen zone.

Mr Sarkozy, defeated in the first round by Mr Hollande 28.6 per cent to 27.1 per cent, tackled Le Pen concerns after the result: ''This anxiety, this suffering, I know them, I understand them. They concern our borders, outsourcing, control of immigration, work, security, for them and their families. I know that in this fast-moving world, the concern of our patriots to preserve their way of life is the key issue in this election.''

Read more: http://www.canberratimes.com.au/world/le-pens-strong-result-shocks-french-rivals-20120423-1xha1.html#ixzz1ul0L6j5E
