The Party of European Socialists (PES) secretary general Philip Cordery has "deplored" the significant vote for the 'Front National' in the first round of the French presidential elections.

His comments come after Francois Hollande, the winner of the first round of France's elections, said Europe's austerity drive fuelled despair and created conditions for the record-high score for anti-euro National Front leader Marine Le Pen.

Le Pen, the leader of the nationalist, anti-immigrant party, won 17.9 per cent, or 6.4 million votes, surpassing poll estimates with the highest tally for the National Front created by her father Jean-Marie Le Pen in 1972.

Hollande, the Socialist candidate, got 28.6 per cent in the April 22 ballot, leaving him to face president Nicolas Sarkozy in next month's runoff. Sarkozy won 27.2 per cent.

As debate rumbled on about the unexpectedly large turnout for Le Pen, senior PES officials congratulated Hollande for topping the poll.

The result marks the first time in French history that a challenger, rather than the sitting president, has come first.

Cordery said, "This result is a great one for Hollande, a first step towards a victory which is so necessary to lead the country out of the crisis."

Cordery added, "A victory that would also mark the end of the Merkozy spectre that has haunted Europe for the last two years. Finally millions of Europeans can begin to hope the focus will once again be on how we can build a progressive society for all."
The PES, he said, "deplored" the significant vote for the Front National as the "inevitable" result of incendiary words and policies" of the current French government".

PES president Sergei Stanishev said, "The populism of the French government has been irresponsible and often dangerous. The Front National score is an indictment of this irresponsibility."

"This result marks a clear turning point.

"Francois Hollande has consistently and courageously said no to austerity-only policies and French citizens have shown they agreed. Soon Europe will follow.

"I know that Francois will draw strength for the final round, not only from this result, but from the millions of progressive voices celebrating around Europe."

