France 2012: Hollande, markets fear only Le Pen advance

(ANSAmed) - PARIS - "If the Paris Stock Exchange has lost a few points, it is because it is worried not about our result but about the gains made by the National Front," the French presidential candidate, Francois Hollande, has said, denying that markets are tense due to the possibility of a Socialist being elected and moving to reassure the French people by claiming that Europe is concerned by the electoral result posted by Marine Le Pen.

After his victory in the first round of the French presidential elections and the collapse of European markets, Hollande is aware that eyes of EU partners and leaders are firmly upon him. Speaking in Brittany for his first official trip since the results of the first round, he delivered a message to the EU, reaffirming his pro-European stance while criticising the new order created by the duo of Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy. "In the name of European values, I want to reorientate the construction of the European Union," Hollande told supporters in Lorient, a thinly-veiled reference to the request, which features in his election programme, to renegotiate the new fiscal treaty by adding a dimension of growth to existing rigour. Hollande repeated the concept a short time later, with an open attack on the desire to subordinate decisions on the budgets of individual countries to choices made in Brussels. "France deserves to be respected," Hollande said. "The French people alone will decide their future. We need the country to take its fate into its own hands". The strong message is an attempt to prepare partners and markets for the behaviour of the Socialist candidate, should he be elected President, but is also aimed at convincing as many electors as possible, turning his first-round success in to overall victory, and persuading his supporters to remain mobilised. "The wave is rising, so much so that the outgoing candidate will receive it full in the face," Hollande insisted during his other speech in Brittany, this time in the town of Quimper. "We want victory for the left, and for France to have hope once more for its future. The Socialist candidate defiantly added: "We have reached our first target, [now] we will win the presidential elections". The response by the markets, however, was not long in coming. The spectre of a market collapse hinted at on many occasions by Sarkozy appears, at least in part, to have materialised today, despite the fact that losses on the Paris Stock Exchange (-2.83%) are paradoxically lower than in other economic capitals, in a day made even more tense by the government crisis in the Netherlands. The yields of sovereign debt bonds registered a contained increase, with the differential compared to the German bund closing at 145.5 base points, after reaching 150 during the afternoon.

For Hollande, though, the cause of market tension can be found in the result obtained by the National Front. "Many Europeans are sending me messages. The pro-Europeans do so directly. But the others too, who are conservative not pro-European, are awaiting us. They are saying to themselves: "If France reorientates European construction, if it revives growth, economic activity, sustainable development, major ecological and environmental infrastructure, then Europe will rise up again and there will be an end to the austerity imposed everywhere and that ends up making people desperate enough to vote for the far-right". 