France Prepares to Elect a New President

The first round of France¡¦s presidential elections are Sunday, and things are not looking good for incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. The centrist Socialist Francois Hollande is the front-runner, both in the first round and in the likely subsequent run-off between the top two contenders¡Xif no candidate clears the 50 percent hurdle, the two with the most votes will go tete-a-tete on May 6. Cousin-of-The Scroll Art Goldhammer predicts a Hollande-Sarkozy run-off and a Hollande victory.

If Sarkozy gets more than expected, one group to credit might be Europe¡¦s largest Jewish community, which is expected to throw him even more support than in 2007 based on what is seen as his effective response to the Toulouse massacre.

Haaretz¡¦ Adar Primor asks the relevant question, with the requisite sense of irony. And it turns out both Sarkozy and Hollande are ¡§good for the Jews¡¨¡XSarkozy perhaps the strongest advocate for Israel ever to occupy the French presidency, and Hollande a remarkably pro-Israel Socialist. (Hollande does not share Sarkozy¡¦s distant Jewish background.)

Meanwhile, what seems less likely to happen is what happened in 2002, when the center-right Gaullist incumbent, in that case Jacques Chirac, took first place, but failed to secure a majority, and second place went to the far-right Front National candidate, in that case Jean-Marie Le Pen. A revived and somewhat reformed FN, led by Le Pen¡¦s daughter, Marine Le Pen (who shares her father¡¦s disdain for foreigners but not his anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial), is expected to finish in third or perhaps fourth.

Yet one shouldn¡¦t feel too complacent, either. Le Pen will be competing for third place not with a centrist like Francois Bayrou but with Socialist Jean-Luc Melenchon, who is nearly as left as Le Pen is right. And personally I was disturbed to learn from John Vinocur: ¡§Le Monde¡¦s lead story on April 10 reported that more 18- to 24-year-olds (26 percent) would vote for her than any other presidential candidate.¡¨ Tablet Magazine contributor Michael Moynihan noted that Brigitte Bardot plans to vote for Le Pen, too. Radical chic indeed.