French election frontrunners trade jibes on economy

Nicolas Sarkozy says only he has the experience to protect France but Francois Hollande blames him for financial woes

France's presidential candidates have needled each other over the euro and the dire state of the French economy before Sunday's first-round vote, as the Socialist challenger Francois Hollande kept his lead over President Nicolas Sarkozy in most polls.

With the election shaping up as a referendum on Sarkozy's personality, bling style and contested record in office, the president told French radio he had helped steer the eurozone through the worst of its debt crisis, styling himself as the only one with the experience to protect France. Hollande in turn blamed him for mismanaging France's strained public finances.

"The risk of the euro imploding doesn't exist anymore," Sarkozy told RTL radio. "Europe is convalescent. That's a reality. We can't afford any mistakes. The minute we ease up on cutting spending, reducing the deficit, reducing the debt, France will share the fate of Spain." He then attacked what he called Hollande's lack of experience. "For 10 years he was head of the Socialist party. He wasn't the head of very much. That's the truth," he said.

Hollande told Europe 1 radio that France's budget woes were the result of five years of Sarkozy's policies. He called for European action to revive growth to fight the debt crisis.

"The important thing is to put our public finances in order. They've been turned completely upside down these past years due to irresponsible fiscal policy and the crisis."

He said the European Central Bank must take a radically different role by lending directly to troubled eurozone states rather than to banks, and by keeping interest rates low. He acknowledged that Germany opposed expanding the ECB's role.

Sarkozy also apologised for what he called his "error" of a lack of "solemnity" at the start of his presidency, answering criticisms of his image as a showy "president of the rich".

He is the least popular French president to run for re-election. If he fails to come first by a good margin in Sunday's vote, it would be difficult for him to win the final runoff on 6 May in which two remaining candidates face each other.

If Hollande wins on Sunday, he would be in a good position for the second round, which every poll for a year has predicted him winning.

Much will hinge on the combined overall score of all the candidates on the French left. If it is a historic high, of between 44-48%, as the polls suggest, it would make a Hollande victory more likely. The extreme-right Front National's Marine Le Pen and the radical left's Jean-Luc Melenchon are vying for third place ahead of the centrist Francois Bayrou.

French voters have been critical of the campaign, saying it lacked substance, contained too much personal sniping and candidates spent more time criticising each other than discussing proposals. Almost a quarter of voters remain undecided and abstention could be as high as 20-30%, compared with a very high turnout in the last election.

On Sunday France votes in the first round of the French presidential election. Two out of 10 candidates will go through to a second-round runoff on 6 May.

¡E All polls over the past two months have pointed to the rightwing president Nicolas Sarkozy and the Socialist Francois Hollande facing each other in the runoff. Who comes first on Sunday, and crucially with what margin, will determine the tone of the final two weeks of the race.

¡E Polls show the extreme-right Front National's Marine Le Pen and the radical leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon battling for third place, with centrist Francois Bayrou in fourth. The positioning of these candidates is important in terms of how their voters will line up for the second round. Every poll for a year has shown Hollande winning the final round runoff.

¡E Abstentionism could be a factor. A poll for Le Parisien by BVA (Brule Ville et Associes) warned it could be 24%, far higher than for the last presidential election.