French Hopefuls Make Final Appeals To Voters

The 10 candidates fighting to be the next French president have made their final appeals to the electorate.

The first round of voting will be held on Sunday after a "day of reflection". If no one wins over 50% of the polled votes then the two frontrunners will proceed to a run-off election on May 6.

Observers say it is the closest race since the start of the Fifth Republic in 1958, when France moved to a presidential system under Charles de Gaulle.

The conservative incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy is trying to secure a second term, but polls suggest he is deeply unpopular for ushering in an age of austerity, while pursuing an affluent lifestyle in the company of billionaires and celebrities.

Mr Sarkozy's most serious challenger is the Socialist Party leader Francois Hollande, a 57-year-old career politician who has been mayor of Tulle in Limousin, and since 2002 has been leader of his party.

He is proposing a 75% income tax band on France's highest earners, the creation of 60,000 new teaching posts to boost competitiveness and regulations on the financial industry.

The most recent survey of voting intentions in a second round, if the two men were to face off, would give victory to Mr Hollande, with 56% of the vote.

But neither candidate has set the campaign alight, so five candidates currently have garnered double figures in the polls.

They include the leader of the far right Front National, Marine Le Pen, the left-wing firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon and the centrist Francis Bayrou.

Mr Hollande told his supporters they should try to help him deliver a knock-out blow this weekend.

"What is at stake this Sunday, is to give me the necessary strength to challenge the departing candidate in the second round. What is at stake this Sunday, is to make this victory an irresistible and irreversible one starting on April 22," he said.

An estimated one-in-four voters are yet to make up their minds, and Mr Sarkozy has been trying to convince waverers that the Socialist recipe for reviving France's sluggish economy would be a disaster.

"The minute we relax pressure on spending cuts, on deficit cuts and cuts in indebtedness, France will suffer the same fate as Spain," he said in an interview on RTL radio.

There is concern that Mr Hollande's stated desire to renegotiate the fiscal compact, designed to bring discipline and stability to the eurozone, could cause panic in the markets.

The Socialists say he only wants to add sections which would help promote growth.