Sarkozy set to lose race

As a dull campaign winds down and France prepares to vote in the first round of the presidential election, the Socialists appear to have the edge.

Has the die been cast? It would seem so. In all probability, President Nicholas Sarkozy will be retiring in May, after the second round of the 2012 French presidential election. At least this is what surveys predict. After the first round, to be held on April 22, 몬Sarko몭, as he is popularly known in France, will be left to fend with Mr Francois Hollande, the Socialist candidate and favorite for the May 6 round.

The President of the French Republic is the elected Head of State with extended powers in the fields of defence and foreign affairs and some control over a Prime Minister but  nonetheless answerable to Parliament.

One characteristic of the 2012 election is the boredom of the campaign. In 1958, the new Constitution of the Fifth Republic replaced the old parliamentary system and undoubtedly brought stability. However, this time a majority of the voters are aware that the next President may not be able to solve the economic problems facing the country.

A week before the first round, Mr Sarkozy fired his last salvo during a large meeting attended by 100,000 people on Concorde Square in Paris (some observers there were only 25,000 people). The 몬news몭 was his attack on the European Central Bank 멪 he asserted that the ECB should do more to revive the European economy: 몮On the question of the ECB몭s role in boosting growth, we French are going to open the debate.몯

He affirmed that there should be 몮no taboos몯 in discussing the rules of the Eurozone, including a more growth-oriented role for the ECB. He told the crowd: 몮It is a historical choice that you will make in three weeks (May 6). Two paths are possible: The first (Mr Hollande) will bring solutions of the past. At the best, it will solve nothing. The borders will continue to be erased and the nation weakened; it will ruin the middle-class, without making the poor wealthier. The other path is that towards the future.몯 In other words, Vote Sarkozy!

The mention of the ECB marked a U-turn in the President몭s previous declarations. There were reasons for this: Mr Hollande was addressing another rally of sympathisers (also 100,000) at the large esplanade of Chateau de Vincennes, the royal castle in Paris, which was razed during the French Revolution. Mr Hollande said he could feel the country was on the brink of change: 몮I feel a great hope mounting from the depths of our country. A calm, firm, lucid hope of change for the better... Give me the force to win the election on May 6.몯

A few days earlier, Mr Sarkozy몭s advisers had found a gimmick to boost the President몭s popularity: They used a video conference with US President Barack Obama. It was an unprecedented move in French diplomacy. The first few minutes of the video link-up between Mr Sarkozy and Mr Obama were broadcast on television channels. The footage showed Mr Obama saying: 몮It must be a busy time. I admire the tough battle you are waging.몯 Mr Sarkozy replied, 몮We will win, Mr Obama. You and me, together.몯 The Socialist Party immediately accused Mr Sarkozy of breaching diplomatic protocol and embarrassing France. But why did Mr Obama, a Democrat, play this game?

Mr Sarkozy, once a hyper-President, has lost his halo. He even had to apologise for his 몬people몭 (Page Three) period during the first years of his Presidency. Today few voters believe he can deliver new miracles. Mr Hollande has never been an exciting postulant; further, he does not have the charm and the charisma of his ex-companion, Ms Segolene Royal, Mr Sarkozy몭s rival in 2007. But the Socialist candidate will in all probability be the next President. This does not make the campaign thrilling. Mr Francois Bayrou, the eternal loser who fashions himself as the 몬alternative몭, has been downgraded to the fifth place in opinion polls.

Ms Marine Le Pen, daughter of the veteran extreme-Right provocateur Jean-Marie Le Pen, is not doing as well as she had expected. A few months ago, she thought that she could topple Mr Sarkozy and reach the second round. She is now ranked fourth behind Mr Jean-Luc Melenchon, the only candidate who keeps progressing, probably thanks to his wild and populist Communist promises. The less one speaks of the other candidates, the better. Will the last days of the race be slightly less boring?

The real issue is that nobody has the solutions to sort out the economic and social problems facing France. There is no readymade panacea. More than 75 per cent of the French believe that globalisation is something negative and that trade with countries like India and China will further affect employment. People are also disappointed by the role of the European Union in national affairs. Very few believe that a solution will come from Brussels which is seen as being 몮too bureaucratic몯.

The British Press never misses an occasion to make fun of the French. The Economist calls France 몮A Country in Denial.몯 The cover story says: 몮What is most striking about the French election is how little anybody is saying about the country몭s dire economic straits. The candidates dish out at least as many promises to spend more as to spend less. Nobody has a serious agenda for reducing France몭s eye-watering taxes. Mr Sarkozy, who in 2007 promised reform with talk of a rupture, now offers voters protectionism, attacks on French tax exiles, threats to quit Europe몭s passport-free Schengen zone and talk of the evils of immigration and halal meat.몯

Mr Hollande will probably be unable to fulfil his promises 몮to expand the state, creating 60,000 teaching posts, partially roll back Mr Sarkozy몭s raise of the pension age from 60 to 62, and squeeze the rich몯, charging them with an income tax rate of up to 75 per cent of their earnings.

Many thought the gruesome killings of military personnel and Jewish kids in southern France would bring some spice into the campaign, or at least open a real debate. Though each candidate presented his own recipe to tackle this tricky issue, the barometer of the surveys did not move.

The US video of a chubby baby who always says 몬no몭 has been adapted for the sake of the coming French presidential election and gone viral. The interviewer asks Charlotte: 몮Tu votes pour Nicolas Sarkozy?몯 (Will you vote for Sarkozy?" Charlotte says 몮Non!몯 For Francois Hollande? 몮Non!몯 For Jean-Luc Melenchon (the Communist Party candidate)? 몮Non!몯 For Marine Le Pen (the aspirant of the far-Right National Front)? 몮Non!몯 Francois Bayrou? 몮Non!몯 And so on, for all the 10 candidates! The popularity of this video shows the atmosphere of the campaign. When candidates have not much to promise, what is left to say?

In India, it is easier. You can always promise a fridge, a bicycle (or a motorbike), a laptop or a grinder, but the French already have all these things. So what can politicians promise? A brighter future? But who can make this promise with the conviction that he or she can deliver on it?
