Five things to know about the French election

(CNN) -- It has been 17 years since France had a president from the left, but that might be about to change.

Opinion polls continue to favor Francois Hollande, a candidate from the center-left Socialist Party, over center-right incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy in the upcoming French presidential election. If elected, Hollande would be the first left-wing president since Francois Mitterrand in 1995.

Sarkozy is seeking his second five-year term, following Jacques Chirac, who served 12 years in office.

As the French take to the polls Sunday, here are a few key points to keep in mind:

1. This is a two-horse race, but other candidates matter.

While there are actually 10 candidates taking part in the presidential race, spanning the entire political spectrum, polls show that only two candidates -- Sarkozy and Hollande -- have a realistic chance of winning the French presidency.

But it will be important to watch how many votes the other candidates get Sunday.

That's because those votes will almost certainly be up for grabs in a runoff election two weeks later. In France, a presidential candidate must receive more than 50% of the vote to win office. If no one claims a majority in the first round of voting -- and no one ever has in this current system -- the top two vote-getters advance to a second round of voting.

"The other candidates have to be given some attention because they exert an influence in the race," said Michael Leruth, who teaches a course about the election at the College of William & Mary in Virginia. "For example, if (far-left candidate Jean-Luc) Melenchon continues to do well and has even a slightly strong showing, Hollande might have to tack more to the left in the runoff round.

"If you're coming out of the first round with 27%, 28%, you need to make it to 50%. So you have to think of where you are going to make up that difference to prevail in the final round."

Another candidate to watch is on the far right. Marine Le Pen, daughter of 2002 presidential finalist Jean-Marie Le Pen, is polling well behind Sarkozy and Hollande, but she's still in the double digits with Melenchon. A strong showing from her Sunday might have an effect on Sarkozy's strategy going into the runoff.