Melenchon Vows to ¡¥Trash¡¦ Fiscal Pact

As the campaign before the first round of voting in French presidential elections draws to a close, far-left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon underlined the importance of supporting growth rather than fiscal austerity to shore up the euro-zone¡¦s struggling economy.

Mr. Melenchon, whose political movement gained traction in recent weeks, is now fighting to be the election¡¦s ¡¥third man¡¦, putting him in a position to sway presidential favourite Socialist Francois Hollande.

¡§Policies which reduce the state budget only lead to recession,¡¨ said Mr. Melenchon Friday, speaking at a news conference organized for the international press.

Despite staunch position against liberalization, Mr. Melenchon resolutely backs the common European currency.  ¡§The euro is in danger¡K but it is in our, the French people¡¦s, interest that it doesn¡¦t die,¡¨ he said, speaking at his campaign headquarters just outside of Paris.

On Sunday, French voters will choose between 10 candidates of which two ¡X most likely President Nicolas Sarkozy and center-left challenger Francois Hollande ¡X will qualify for the second round on May 6.

Voting intentions in recent polls show that the far-left candidate, who considers Latin America¡¦s Socialist revolutions ¡§a source of learning¡¨, could gather between 14 and 15% of the vote, compared with around 30% each for the two main runners.

Mr. Melenchon has little chance of reaching the second round of the presidential elections. However, strong support for his candidature could force Mr. Hollande to remain open to his propositions.

¡§We will do everything possible to make [Nicolas] Sarkozy lose¡¨ the elections, said Mr. Melenchon, adding that this would not only be for domestic reasons but also in order to make the ¡¥Merkozy¡¦ partnership collapse, referring to the nickname for Mr. Sarkozy and German Chanceller Angela Merkel.

Critical of Mr. Hollande¡¦s pledge to renegotiate the euro-zone¡¦s fiscal compact, Mr. Melenchon considers ¡§unmanageable¡¨ the co-existence of growth and austerity measures in the agreement.

¡§If we govern, then naturally the [European] fiscal treaty will go directly in the trash,¡¨ he said.