In France, the Fringe Emerges as a Force

PARIS ¡X Francois Kahn has had enough of the French mainstream. Raised in a conservative Parisian family, his sympathies growing up were on the right. About 10 years ago, he switched his allegiance to the Socialists, who seemed to embody values that had grown important to him, such as equality and social justice. 

But on Sunday, the first round of France¡¦s presidential elections, Mr. Kahn, a 30-year-old strategic planner and graduate of one of France¡¦s top business schools, will be voting for Jean-Luc Melenchon, a former teacher and Trotskyist, whose party, the Front de Gauche, groups a hodgepodge of former Communists, environmentalists and anti-globalists disheartened by a presidential race that many voters feel is out of touch with their bread-and-butter concerns about jobs, the rising cost of living and the future of their state pension and health care benefits.

¡§The Socialists have really become a party of the center-right,¡¨ Mr. Kahn said. ¡§It¡¦s almost like they are too embarrassed to be on the left.¡¨

Such frustrations are manifesting themselves across France in stronger-than-usual support for so-called fringe candidates on both the left and the right. Together, the extreme wings of French politics are poised to capture as much as 30 percent of the vote on Sunday, according to opinion polls taken in the weeks before Sunday¡¦s election. (French law bars publication of more current polling data in the final 48 hours before voting.) That is more than either of the two front-runners, President Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist challenger, Francois Hollande, are expected to take among a field of 10 candidates.

The move to the extremes contrasts starkly with elections just five years ago, when three out of four voters turned out in record numbers to vote resoundingly for the mainstream. Along with what pollsters expect to be the highest rate of abstention for a presidential election in a decade ¡X some 25 percent ¡X the shift has the potential to make this election an especially volatile and unpredictable one. How the voters at the fringes cast their ballots in the second-round runoff next month ¡X and whether they turn out at all ¡X is likely to decide who will be the next president of France.

The two-part structure of France¡¦s presidential race means that many voters may be using the first round to afford themselves a protest vote. Even so, analysts say, the number who appear willing to do so by voting for the political fringe signals an alarming degree of disaffection, even anger, among the French at a critical time when they must decide which direction to take in addressing the grinding euro crisis and their nation¡¦s economic malaise.

The choice amounts to either doubling down on France¡¦s Socialist traditions and ample ¡X some say, unaffordable ¡X welfare state, or moving farther toward the kinds of reforms aimed at trimming the state and opening French labor markets that Mr. Sarkozy has long promised but has been largely unable to deliver.

For the moment, at least, voters are in effect saying they want neither, or at least not the polite solutions put forward so far by the politicians of France¡¦s two main political parties.

¡§The French mistrust of politicians and institutions has never been so high as it is today,¡¨ said Pascal Perrineau, director of the Center for Political Research at the Institut d¡¦Etudes Politiques in Paris, also known as Sciences Po. ¡§We are experiencing a major crisis of confidence.¡¨

The lack of confidence runs the political gamut. Stefan Cavers, too, is fed up. The 35-year-old engineer from Gueret, in central France, will be casting his ballot for Marine Le Pen, the candidate of the far-right National Front.

Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Hollande both have ¡§betrayed¡¨ the French, Mr. Cavers said, by supporting ¡§the same internationalist, free trade politics¡¨ he blames for the current economic crisis. He faults both the Socialists and Mr. Sarkozy¡¦s Union for a Popular Movement party for embracing deeper European integration at the expense of French national interests.

¡§I do not trust Sarkozy and Hollande, because they represent 30 years of crisis in France,¡¨ Mr. Cavers said. ¡§These parties have interchanged and whilst being in power have made our country decline.¡¨

Nostalgia for France¡¦s past power and influence exists in equal measure on the left and the right, analysts said. It is the collective mourning of this loss of global stature that some say feeds voters¡¦ distrust of leaders who they feel no longer measure up ¡X and their willingness to support fringe candidates like Ms. Le Pen or Mr. Melenchon. 