'I won't do it again': Sarkozy apologises for glitzy 'Bling-Bling' lifestyle and makes desperate plea for France to re-elect him

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2132747/Bling-Bling-Sarkozy-apologises-glitzy-lifestyle-makes-desperate-plea-France-elect-him.html#ixzz1ukd085k9


Nicholas Sarkozy today apologised for mistakes made during his five years in power as he made a desperate plea for the French to re-elect him as their head of state.

It came as polls predicted he would not only lose the first round of presidential elections being held on Sunday, but be completely humiliated in the second round two weeks later.

Referring to the 'Bling-Bling' image he established within a few months of taking power by holidaying as a guest of multi-millionaires and hanging out in the most glamorous restaurants and hotels in Paris, Sarkozy said it would not happen again.

'Perhaps the mistake I made at the start of my mandate is not understanding the symbolic dimension of the president's role and not being solemn enough in my acts,' Sarkozy told RTL radio in Paris.

'It's a mistake for which I would like to apologise and explain myself, and which I will not make again,' he said, adding hopefully: 'Now, I know the job.'

The latest poll published in France suggests that Francois Hollande, Sarkozy's Socialist rival, will win around 29 per cent of the vote on Sunday, compared to 25.5 for the incumbent.

Then Hollande will win the final vote by 56 per cent to Sarkozy's 44 per cent, the Ipsos poll forecasts.

This will be by far the largest margin of defeat for a serving President in the history of the 5th Republic, and confirm Sarkozy's status as the most unpopular head of state in recent French history.

The same poll has National Front candidate Marine Le Pen on 16 per cent of the vote in the first round.

Far-Left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon is on 14 per cent, and moderate centrist Francois Bayrou on 10 per cent.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2132747/Bling-Bling-Sarkozy-apologises-glitzy-lifestyle-makes-desperate-plea-France-elect-him.html#ixzz1ukd2pOBm


All campaigning and polls cease at midnight on Friday and then voting for the first round starts on Sunday.

Results are expected to come through late on Sunday night.

Sarkozy's campaign spokeswoman, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, insisted that there would be a 'big surprise' on Sunday thanks to the 'silent French, who don't express themselves in the media or on the internet'.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2132747/Bling-Bling-Sarkozy-apologises-glitzy-lifestyle-makes-desperate-plea-France-elect-him.html#ixzz1ukd45Cnr

Meanwhile, the energy adviser to Hollande has said France would withdraw support from a U.S.-British plan to release strategic oil stocks if the Socialist front-runner beats Sarkozy.

France joined Britain and the U.S. last month in talks to tap into strategic stocks, saying a move could happen in a matter of weeks.

While Sarkozy's right-leaning government is pushing for a drawdown of emergency inventories to cut fuel prices, the Socialists say stocks should only be used in case of a severe supply disruption, not to manage prices.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2132747/Bling-Bling-Sarkozy-apologises-glitzy-lifestyle-makes-desperate-plea-France-elect-him.html#ixzz1ukd5nzrw

'Strategic stocks are here in case of a major supply crisis,' Francois Brottes, energy adviser to Hollande said. He said a release was not part of the Socialist candidate's proposals.

Brottes said that a drawdown could leave France in a vulnerable state in case of a major supply crisis.

'This could potentially be dangerous,' he said.

Fuel prices have been a high-profile electoral theme in France with diesel and gasoline prices at record highs. The United States also faces pressure over gasoline prices ahead of presidential elections later in 2012.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2132747/Bling-Bling-Sarkozy-apologises-glitzy-lifestyle-makes-desperate-plea-France-elect-him.html#ixzz1ukd7yX6R

Hollande proposes to freeze retail fuel price increases for three months and to reinstall a system that reduces the amount of taxes included in the price of petrol when oil prices rise and to push taxes up again when crude prices fall.

Jean-Marc Tenneson, head of France's emergency oil stocks agency, said the government had not yet been in touch with the agency concerning a potential release.

U.S. President Barack Obama discussed conditions on world oil markets during a video conference last Thursday with Sarkozy, the White House said, but declined to say if they talked about the release of strategic reserves.

The U.S., Britain and France are considering releasing reserves without outside the coordination of the 28-member International Energy Agency which has coordinated previous emergency oil releases.

The IEA said last month it remained ready to act if market conditions warranted but in a monthly report said 'the tide of remorseless market tightening looked to have turned'.

Oil prices have dipped by some 5 percent since mid-March to $118 a barrel after rising by around 15 percent since the start of 2012 to $128 over tensions with Iran.

Many in France have voiced criticism of the release proposal, with consumer groups and experts arguing that a fall in fuel prices would be small.

They worry that inventories released on to the market would have to be purchased back at a later date, pushing oil prices back up again.

Nicolas Mouchnino, in charge of energy at consumer group UFC Que Choisir said a fall in fuel prices would be very short term.

'The problem is that the rise in prices is not a one-off but structural because demand is very strong,' Mouchnino said.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2132747/Bling-Bling-Sarkozy-apologises-glitzy-lifestyle-makes-desperate-plea-France-elect-him.html#ixzz1ukd9um00
