Video: I will get to the second round of voting, vows French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen

Read more: http://www.vancouversun.com/news/will+second+round+voting+vows+French+presidential+candidate+Marine/6487440/story.html#ixzz1ukdL1ZH1


Marine Le Pen Thursday pledged to outdo her father who she succeeded as head of the far-Right National Front by winning a higher score than he did to reach the second round of French presidential elections.

With three days to go before the first round, Miss Le Pen, 43, said she would consider it a "step backwards" not to surpass the almost 17 per cent her father Jean-Marie won in 2002 to reach the presidential run-off against Jacques Chirac - the biggest electoral shock in modern French history.

"It would bother me to do less well O It would be a step backwards," said the woman who has sought to rejuvenate and "de-demonise" the party since taking over last year.

She may win more votes than her father, but stands far less chance of reaching the second round as he did. Polls suggest President Nicolas Sarkozy and Francois Hollande, the Socialist front-runner, will both win up to 10 percentage points more than her.

Earlier this year, it looked like the former lawyer was heading for the run-off when she briefly overtook Mr Sarkozy in voting intentions for round one. But her score has dropped since he started gunning for the FN electorate with a hard-line discourse on immigration, security and conservative values.

She lost steam when seeking to convince voters her protectionist economic program, including a return to the franc, was credible. But a return to the party "fundamentals" of immigration and security has seen her poll ratings rise in recent days, with one now placing her in third place on 17 per cent. Addressing a crowd of 6,000 in her final electoral rally in Paris on Tuesday, Miss Le Pen boomed: "You have a right to not want any more Franco-Algerians like Mohamed Merah." She was referring to the Islamist gunman who murdered seven in Toulouse last month. The hall roared: "This is our home."

The far-Right National Front presidential candidate proceeded with a flurry of crowd-pleasers on French "national preference" over foreigners and the threat of "submersion" by immigrants. Then came the pet refrain of her father in his five unsuccessful presidential campaigns: "No, we are not xenophobes. We are passionately Francophile."

But she also peppered the speech with quasi-Leftist discourse against the "system", saying she would return the legal retirement age to 60, increase the minimum wage and attack "ultraliberalism".

Miss Le Pen's attempts to rid the party of its anti-Semitic fringes have not been helped by her father, still its "honorary president". Yesterday he quipped that Mr Sarkozy's initials were the same as National Socialism and that the centre-Right incumbent's mass meeting in Place de la Concorde last Sunday reminded him of a Nuremberg rally.

Miss Le Pen faces a bitter fight for third place with hard Leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon, but now looks set to finish ahead of the Left Front candidate.

With roughly a quarter of the French still undecided and at least as many tempted by abstention, the Le Pen camp is convinced she can top the 20 per cent mark.

Read more: http://www.vancouversun.com/news/will+second+round+voting+vows+French+presidential+candidate+Marine/6487440/story.html#ixzz1ukdNKPIP
