French presidential elections: Sarkozy and Hollande neck and neck

The French presidential election is expected to take place this weekend, but whilst socialist Francois Hollande appears to be out front, incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy is snapping close at his heels and, commentators say, it¡¦s anyone¡¦s game. Far-right Marine le Pen and far-left Jean-Luc Melenchon are currently battling it out for third, as centrist Francois Bayrou is becoming an also-ran.

The first round will take place on Sunday, and if nobody gets an absolute majority, then a run-off will happen on 6 May. Campaigning has largely focused on the economy, with both of the lead runners promising to balance the books. Commentators are saying that though it¡¦s a close-run race between Hollande and Sarkozy, anything might happen as disillusioned voters turn to the more extreme candidates ¡V not much is clear, said Time, which looked at the numbers. Some polls say Sarkozy is ahead; others say its Hollande. But 26 percent of the electorate are expected to abstain, and 24 percent say they haven¡¦t even made their minds up yet, so ¡§all sorts of surprises are possible.¡¨

Ready for change. The Guardian¡¦s editorial said that the election has the potential to change ¡§the face of politics¡¨ not only ¡§in France but Europe too.¡¨ Hollande could be France¡¦s first socialist president in 17 years ¡V he is ¡§all but assured of victory.¡¨ It¡¦s been a largely ¡§boring campaign¡¨, but don¡¦t forget Jen-Luc Melenchon ¡V he¡¦s a ¡§firebrand,¡¨ but ¡§also your favourite school teacher.¡¨ He¡¦s taking proletariat voters away from the far right, and has revivified the left. He probably won¡¦t come third on Sunday ¡V but at least it will be ¡§the first time¡¨ that a pair of candidates from the left get into the top three. There¡¦s still a way to go, but ¡§France stands on the cusp of real political change.¡¨

Dismal choices. It¡¦s all about the economy, said The Wall Street Journal. France has 90 percent public debt ¡V bigger than Spain¡¦s. Unemployment is ¡§chronic.¡¨ Sarkozy is promising to lower the deficit by raising taxes. But his other policies are vague. Hollande, on the other hand, wants to tax the rich at 75 percent over £á1 million, and 45 percent over 150,000. His spending plans, however, rely on ¡§more borrowing.¡¨ With that, turn out at the election is expected to be low ¡V French voters ¡§know that their choices this year are dismal.¡¨

The guillotine! Whatever happens, said Ian Birrell in The Daily Mail, the French are sick of Sarkozy. They are sick of his rich supermodel wife, Carla Bruni; they¡¦re sick of his ostentation and his wining and dining with the wealthy; they call him the ¡§Little Emperor.¡¨ He¡¦s been a disaster, in terms of what he promised. ¡§I fear the political  guillotine awaits.¡¨

A tale of two Frances. But don¡¦t forget what France is really about, said Sylvie Kauffmann, the editorial director of Le Monde, in The Financial Times. What¡¦s been happening with the extreme candidates is exactly what¡¦s been going on with the Indignados in Spain, and the Occupy movements elsewhere. But ¡§there is another France¡¨, which has been ignored by foreign media and the candidates ¡V it¡¦s ¡§creative, dynamic, innovative, diverse and adventurous.¡¨ Many French go abroad to train, but come back with their skills; many also want to set up their own businesses ¡V more even than in the US. And whoever eventually wins will have to reconcile both these Frances.¡¨