2012 French Presidential Election: First Round Odds and Betting Preview

PARIS, FRANCE - Election fever will grip France this weekend as voters head to the polling booths to cast their vote on Sunday in the first round of the Presidential election. Whilst the most popular betting market on the historic event is to pick the future president, punters also have a chance to make some cash by betting on who will win the first round, who will make it through to the next stage and perhaps more intriguingly, who will finish the 몬troisieme homme몭 (third).

The way it works is that French citizens each get a chance to vote for their candidate of choice on Sunday 22 April, between 8am and 6pm. There are 10 candidates gunning to be the next President of the Fifth Republic, although for punting purposes, there are only five that are worth considering: Nicolas Sarkozy (Right), Francois Hollande (Left), Marine Le Pen (Far Right), Jean-Luc Melenchon (Far Left) and Francois Bayrou (Centre). If no candidate receives more than 50% of the vote on Sunday (guaranteed), then the two candidates with the most votes go head-to-head in the second round, which will be Sunday 6 May.

Everyone in France expects Francois Hollande to become the next President, and the Socialist candidate is best-priced at 1/5 (bet 묂50 to make 묂10 profit) with William Hill to get the job. Ladbrokes are particularly keen to stop laying bets on Hollande becoming President and have cut his odds to 1/10 from 1/3 in the past week, but he could drift in the market on the back of a mediocre showing in Sunday몭s polls. Hollande is 8/11 with Ladbrokes to win the first round, but he can also be supported at 2/1 with Paddy Power to lose the first round to Sarkozy but still go on the clinch the presidency.

Hollande is the more fashionable candidate of the two principals and looks set to cash in on Sarkozy몭s diminishing popularity (5/1 for next president with Ladbrokes). Nicolas Sarkozy promised to 몬restore the value of work, authority, merit and respect for the nation몭, but instead his government will be remembered for introducing and then abolishing the 50% tax cap, as well as fudging a lengthy debate on national identity. Sarkozy몭s government brought in the said tax cap in 2008, but backed down in 2011 - just in time for the election. Hollande is the 몬populiste몭 candidate, in that he wants to introduce several measures and get the nation working again, but the downside to his plans is that taxation is going to rise significantly if he elected into office.

British newsfeeds like the BBC covering the French election are odds-on to talk about Hollande몭s proposal for a 75% top rate of income tax, which will be applicable for earnings above one million euros, but his tax measures will also hit the middle-classes hard. I personally know a handful of young French 몬cadres몭, earning between 7000 and 10000 a month who are prepared to leave the country if Hollande is voted in as President - but in terms of voting numbers, these guys are just drops in the political ocean. Even Jacques Chirac has jumped on the Hollande bandwagon, who is seen as the most intelligent candidate on the left of the spectrum.

The French love to hate Sarkozy, and if the betting is to be believed, his time is now coming to an end. 몬Sarko몭 beat Segolene Royal in the first round in 2007, 31% to 26%, but the final polls this week put him behind Hollande. Taking the average of the last eight polls to be published (they are banned this weekend!), Hollande wins the first round with 28% with Sarkozy in second place on 26.4%. The second round is expected to be a procession for Hollande, but that is boring, we will preview it nearer the time. The real fight is the fight for third place between the three others we mentioned at the top of the article.

Marine Le Pen is doing her best to shed the extremist image of her FN party, and in doing so is trying to become the number one candidate from the right. Of course, she could not be Jean-Marie Le Pen몭s daughter without promising to cut immigration to just 5% of the current influx, but she is still doing fairly well in the polls, fluctuating between 14% and 17.5% since February (Ipsos). Irish bookie Paddy Power have taken a number of wagers on her to finish third on Sunday, and she is now 8/15 in that market from 5/4 earlier this month. Political pundits reckon that Marine몭s success will be judged on whether she get over 15% of the vote, but Le Pen herself is gunning for over 20%. Harris Interactive predict that 74% of her voters will vote for Sarkozy in the second round.

Jean-Luc Melenchon is also in the fight for third place, and is 6/4 with Paddy Power to be the 몬troisieme homme몭. Melenchon (pictured) is seen as the most talented candidate from the left, and has stunned plenty of onlookers with his open-air rallies. One such rally attracted 100,000 to the Bastille, but it remains to be seen whether he can capitalise on his wave with a strong performance in the polls. His intended vote has hovered between 13% and 17%, but realistically-speaking his performance will be judged on whether or not he can get above 10%. If he beats Le Pen it would be an incredible result for him, but you have to bear in mind that in 2007 the buzz candidate was the communist Marie-George Buffet, who was all over the newspapers but then only went on to win 1.94% of the first round vote.

The final word goes to our old friend Francois Bayrou, who is 10/1 with Paddy Power to finish third and 100/1 with Ladbrokes to be the next president. Bayrou came third in 2007 with 18.57%, which essentially sent Jean-Marie Le Pen into retirement, but the general consensus over here is that his star is on the wane. The centrist candidate is not getting much coverage at all, and his policy of selling t-shirts for 5 each to supporters at his recent rally in Lyon is questionable! Polls put him on 10.1%, and he could throw his weight around between the two rounds.