Major candidates in 2012 French presidential election

The 2012 French presidential election campaign drew to a halt at midnight on Friday, 32 hours ahead of Sunday's first round of ballot.

The following is introduction of the major candidates in the election out of a total of 10 candidates registered for the first round.

-- Nicolas Sarkozy, 57, the incumbent president, representing the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP)

Son of a Hungarian immigrant, Sarkozy is a trained lawyer and has held many government posts before beating the Socialist candidate Segolene Royal in 2007 for a five-year term as the 23rd President of the French Republic.

Though once enjoying high popularity during the first year in office with his "rupture" platform, Sarkozy now ranked the least popular incumbent campaigning to renew mandate at the Elysee as a mixed result of his "bling-bling" personal style and harsh policies such as the raising the retirement age from 60 to 62 in 2010.

Sarkozy announced his re-election bid on Feb. 15, despite handicaps of weak economic data and high unemployment during his presidency, in addition to a blow from the international rating agency Standard & Poor's cut of the country's credit ratings in January.

He pledged to bring jobs to millions by improving training at a time when the country's unemployment rate hit nearly 10 percent, and to listen more to French voters by calling referendums on reforms.

The conservative politician also said he would impose a minimum tax on profits of big listed companies to pocket billions of euros every year to help curtail government spending deficit.

The incumbent said he would lay out a "Buy European Act" within 12 months if re-elected which obliges the state to consume domestically-produced goods and warned to pull the country out of the Schengen zone unless fellow member states do not strengthen controls on migrants.

With the aim "to revive with favorable conditions the integration," Sarkozy said he would try to reduce legal immigration to France from 180,000 to 100,000 annually.

In the wake of the shooting accidents in Toulouse, he called for tough measures against Islamist extremists. His swift and tactful action of the incident had helped him to close the gap between the Socialist front-runner Francois Hollande.

However, latest polls showed that Sarkozy, who is expected to run neck-to-neck with Hollande in the first round, would be roundly defeated in the run-off in May.

-- Francois Hollande, 58, Socialist Party (PS) candidate

Born in the northwestern city of Rouen into a middle-class family, Hollande boasts a shining education background with diplomas of Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales de Paris (HEC), Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po) and Ecole nationale d'administration (ENA), all elite universities in France.

Hollande has served as the first secretary of the PS from 1997 to 2008, and beat Martine Aubry with convincing advantage last October to become the biggest opposite party's presidential candidate for 2012 election.

He was mayor of Tulle in central France from 2001 to 2008 and is a member of parliament for the southwestern department of Correze, but has never held a government post at national level.

Bespectacled, and with a scholarly air, Hollande has successfully portrayed himself as a "normal president" as opposed to the hyperactive Sarkozy, taking advantage of public's disappointment with the incumbent president, who has lagged behind in most polls.

Like Sarkozy, Hollande pledged to provide more jobs. He promised to hire 60,000 teachers in his term in addition to 150,000 state-aided jobs to help young job seekers.

Hollande opposed a financial policy solely based on austerity, and said he would open negotiations on the European fiscal pact reached last December by adding new clauses focusing on economic growth and job creation.

His campaign gained impetus after proposing a 75-percent tax rate on those who earn over 1 million euros (1.31 million U.S. dollars) a year on the one hand, and increase of the minimum wage on the other.

Another impressive performance of the Socialist candidate was his slam on the "world of finance," calling it "my enemy" in a party rally in January.

Although in his platform Hollande aimed to reach zero budget gap in 2017 if elected, he also said that this schedule is subject to adjustment to accord with macro-economic situation, showing his pragmatic side.

In addition to capping executive pay, creating a financial transaction tax and separating banks' retail and investment arms, Hollande urged the establishment of a European rating agency.

Apart from public backing as indicated in recent polls which gave him a handsome 55 and 58 percent in the second round of the vote, he won appreciation from the former president Jacques Chirac, who praised him as a "true statesman" in his memoir and was reportedly to give his ballot for the modest politician.

-- Marine Le Pen, 43, candidate representing the far right National Front (FN)

The French lawyer was the youngest daughter of Jean-Marie Le Pen, founder of the National Front who unexpectedly made into the presidential run-off in 2002 to challenge Jacques Chirac.

She became a FN member in 1986 at the age of 18, and inherited the party leadership from her father in early 2011.

Heading the anti-immigration party, she campaigned for toughening citizenship requirements, shutting borders and forbidding foreigners from access to any social aid.

In her platform, she planned to reduce annual immigration to 5 percent of its current level.

As an advocate of protectionism, Le Pen also wanted France to exit the eurozone, get rid of EU free trade and competition rules and have greater sovereignty in dealing with EU.

Polls showed she would gain between 14 and 17 percent of the votes in the first round.

--Jean-Luc Melenchon, 61, candidate representing the Left Front

Born in Morocco, Melenchon has stayed in the former French protectorate until 11 years old before moving to France with his family. With a degree in philosophy, he had been a teacher before entering politics.

Joining the Socialist Party since 1977 and serving as minister of vocational education from 2000 to 2002, he left the party to found Left Party in 2008, inspired by leftist movements in Latin America and France's own historic leftist examples such as French Revolution and Paris Commune.

Melenchon has promoted "citizens' revolution," calling for decentralization of power and nationalization of industry in a new "Sixth Republic" apart from an immediate 20-percent rise in the minimum wage and setting a maximum wage of 360,000 euros (471,600 U.S. dollars) a year.

He promised to restore the legal retirement age at 60 instead of 62 for all workers and to legalize all illegal migrants.

A member of the European Parliament since 2009, he pledged to rescind the European stability pact curbing deficit and six-pack EU legislation strengthening budget discipline.

His poll surged remarkably after the mass rally of "Retake the Bastille" which attracted some 120,000 participants in March, running neck-to-neck for the third place with the far-right leader Marine Le Pen in recent polls.

-- Francois Bayrou, born in May 1951, candidate of Democratic Movement (Modem)

Bayrou is a centrist politician born in southwest borders of France into an agricultural family. Studying literature at university, he got at the age of 23 the aggregation, the highest qualifying level for teachers in senior high schools and universities in France.

A former member of the European parliament, Bayrou was minister of education under Edouard Balladur and Alain Juppe governments from 1993 to 1997. Since 1998, he has served as the president of Union for French Democracy (UDF).

In 2002 and 2007, he ran for French presidential elections twice. During the 2007 election, Bayrou came third after Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal in the first round with 18.6 percent of votes. After his loss, he decided to create a new centrist party which is the Modem.

He targeted zero budget deficit by 2016 and planned to increase VAT in 2012 in a context of slowing economy. Furthermore, he promised tax advantage for investment for small businesses of artisans and traders and reforms of education system.

Along with a "Made-in-France" slogan to enhance the image of the home-made goods to protect jobs, Bayrou prioritized education at the heart of his campaign to tackle unemployment.

Though polls saw him ranking fifth with between 10 and 12 percent of the votes, his supporters would constitute a decisive force in May's decisive round. 