France casts vote that may spell end of Sarkozy

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/france-casts-vote-that-may-spell-end-of-sarkozy-20120420-1xcjv.html#ixzz1uiQLuwcI


FRENCH voters will cast their ballots tomorrow in the first round of a presidential election that could give France its first Socialist leader in nearly two decades. The campaign has entered its final phase as Conservative President Nicolas Sarkozy and his main rival, Socialist Francois Hollande, hold their final rallies.

Mr Sarkozy is in deep trouble and is looking, for now, as if he could be the first one-term French president since 1981. He appears to be running neck and neck with Mr Hollande, his main challenger, in tomorrow's first round of voting, when 10 candidates are competing. But all the opinion polls show Mr Sarkozy losing to Mr Hollande in a face-off two weeks later.

Even more troubling for Mr Sarkozy, the polls indicate that many French simply do not like him and that many will vote in the second round for the bland Mr Hollande or simply stay home rather than see Mr Sarkozy back in the Elysee Palace for another five years.

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/france-casts-vote-that-may-spell-end-of-sarkozy-20120420-1xcjv.html#ixzz1uiQO6Wvz

Mr Sarkozy is running hard to place first tomorrow to give him momentum going into the second round. Even if he trails Mr Hollande in the first round, he will remember that Jacques Chirac trailed his Socialist rival in the first round in 1995 and won anyway.

But to win on May 6, Mr Sarkozy would need the votes of many who tomorrow will choose either the far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen, or the centrist, Francois Bayrou. Some experts suggest that Mr Sarkozy may need as much as two-thirds of the voters from each of those two very different camps to win.

Mr Sarkozy's campaign has been built around the "values of national identity", of a protective state standing against the threats of globalisation and uncontrolled immigration.

Earlier in the campaign Mr Sarkozy called for a Europe with tighter frontiers, fewer immigrants, more regulation and more protection for French industry.

His government also fuelled controversy when it banned six Muslim clerics who had been invited to speak at a conference organised by the Union of French Islamic Organisations (UOIF).

Foreign Minister Alain Juppe and Interior Minister Claude Gueant said in a joint statement that the imams "call for hate and violence . . . and, in the current context, present a strong risk of upsetting public order". Mr Sarkozy said they were not welcome in France.

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/france-casts-vote-that-may-spell-end-of-sarkozy-20120420-1xcjv.html#ixzz1uiQPU3XH

The UOIF said it was surprised and hurt by the government's "manifest determination to prolong a polemic . . . based on total ignorance". It said the bans risked "deepening the feeling French Muslims have of being blacklisted and treated with prejudice".

The government's decision followed bans on wearing the burqa and on praying in public places, strong negative comments by Mr Sarkozy about halal meat and separate hours for men and women at public swimming pools, and promises by the President that he would halve immigration because France could not integrate the many "foreigners" already within its borders.

For one couple at the conference, Marwa Krifa and her husband Majdi Jebeniani, both 25,

their main concern is Mr Sarkozy's threats on immigration. Mr Jebeniani has papers that allow him to stay in France; she has yet to gain hers.

"We just wait for after the elections to see what will happen," she says. They would go back to Tunisia rather than be split up, she says, but there is little work there for people as highly qualified as they are.

Her husband says: "We like the French and have no problem with the French people. The problem is French politics. It doesn't treat us like other French people. Mutual respect is what we are asking for; that they respect her headscarf, for example."

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/france-casts-vote-that-may-spell-end-of-sarkozy-20120420-1xcjv.html#ixzz1uiQQyPIS
