Burman: Francois Hollande is the man to watch in French election

As the nasty era of Nicolas Sarkozy approaches its unhappy end in French politics, the transformation of Socialist Francois Hollande is about to begin. The man depicted on France¡¦s most popular satirical puppet show as a dopey, wide-eyed embodiment of wobbly caramel pudding, Hollande will soon emerge in the majestic sunlight of Elysee Palace as France¡¦s next President of the Republic. What must Dominique Strauss-Kahn be thinking now?

Whether Hollande finishes narrowly ahead or slightly behind Sarkozy in Sunday¡¦s first round of France¡¦s presidential election is irrelevant. By all accounts, he is now virtually certain to win the decisive final round on May 6. No recent public opinion has indicated otherwise even though a year ago no one ever imagined that this is how it would turn out.

Until last May, the favoured French Socialist candidate and front-runner to oust Sarkozy was Strauss-Kahn, who was completing his tenure in Washington as head of the International Monetary Fund. But then, the incident with a hotel maid in New York City happened and, more recently, he was http://placed under investigation in Paris for ¡§aggravated pimping.¡¨ Exit Strauss-Kahn and his libido, enter Hollande and his blandness.

As the countries of struggling Europe govern uncertainly from the right ¡X with an astonishing 23 of 27 governments now conservative ¡X the election of Hollande will mean the first French Socialist government in a generation. But Hollande¡¦s appeal seems as much for his personality as for his platform. In contrast with the fiery and hectoring Sarkozy who ridicules his opponent at every opportunity ¡X ¡§Hollande¡¦s no good, useless. He¡¦s useless, do you understand?¡¨ ¡X the Socialist candidate is increasingly seen as competent, intellectual, uninspiring but comfortable, and this seems to be working. If France fears its national personality has become too much like Sarkozy¡¦s, this election suggests it now aspires to be more like Hollande¡¦s.

By focusing on Sarkozy¡¦s weaknesses, the Socialist campaign has worked hard to blunt any fears that it will govern recklessly from the left. As Hollande says frequently: ¡§People say to us, ¡¥Watch out, the left is back, it¡¦s going to empty the state coffers. It¡¦ll raise the debt. It will hurt competitiveness. Well, this has already happened. We will do the opposite.¡¨

The Socialist candidate, who for many, looks like a small town bank manager, doesn¡¦t hide his ideological roots. He once joked on TV that ¡§I don¡¦t like the rich¡¨ and proposed a new tax on the wealthy. He wants to hire more teachers, wants to scrap the European bailout package already negotiated by France and Germany and wants to pull out all French troops out of Afghanistan by the end of the year. Hollande outlines a program that would put him at odds with the right-of-centre governments which currently dominate Europe, and encircle France.

Dominique Moisi, the founder of the French Institute of International Affairs (IFRI), laments, ¡§A suicidal denial of reality seems to unite the candidates and their supporters, best formulated as follows: ¡¥Don¡¦t address serious issues, such as the national debt, during the election campaign, and we will not expect you to confront them seriously when you are in power¡¦.¡¨

But the biggest surprise so far has been the popularity of Jean-Luc Melenchon, a second-tier presidential candidate who represents France¡¦s Left Front which is considerably more left-wing than Hollande¡¦s Socialists. According to polls, Melenchon threatens to beat the far-right¡¦s presidential candidate, Marine Le Pen of the National Front, for third place.

If that happens, pressure would build in France for more direct government intervention in dealing with the current economic crisis. Both Melenchon and Francois Hollande favour an activist government role.

Led by Germany¡¦s Angela Merkel with the support of Britain and France, the Europe-wide approach has been unrelenting budget cuts and austerity, rather than stimulus, and this has been a failure. In his column last Sunday for The New York Times about Europe, Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman urged more expansion and stimulus: Otherwise, ¡§the determination of European leaders to commit economic suicide ¡K (will) drive their economy and their society off a cliff, and the whole world will pay the price.¡¨

Turning France in this new direction may be the most important headline coming out of this election when it concludes on May 6.