Polls show France will choose bland over bling

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/polls-show-france-will-choose-bland-over-bling-20120420-1xc7k.html#ixzz1udgozgVQ


NICOLAS SARKOZY could be the first one-term French president since 1981, amid opinion polls showing he will lose to the Socialist candidate Francois Hollande in a second-round election decider.

Ten candidates are competing in the first round of voting in the presidential elections which begin tomorrow.

Mr Hollande and Mr Sarkozy are expected to finish that round neck-and-neck. However the incumbent is headed for a second-round defeat two weeks later - a result which would be felt far beyond Paris.

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/polls-show-france-will-choose-bland-over-bling-20120420-1xc7k.html#ixzz1udgqVKkM

Mr Sarkozy has had contentious but valuable relationships with the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, a fellow conservative, on European and eurozone issues; with the British on defence issues, including the Libyan war; and with the US President, Barack Obama, on issues involving Iran and Israel, NATO and Russia.

A victory by even a centrist Socialist like Mr Hollande, who has advocated higher taxes on the rich and a greater emphasis on growth over austerity, would create immediate strains with Germany and rattle financial markets that are already nervous about the size of France's debt.

Mr Hollande has also said that he wants to pull French troops out of Afghanistan sooner than NATO has agreed to do. Still, he says that his first visit abroad would be to Berlin, no matter how chilly the reception.

Mr Sarkozy faces an electoral dilemma that is inherently tactical. Presuming he gets through to the runoff on May 6, does he continue to run to the right, or move to the centre? And will it make enough of a difference anyway in a nation that admires what he promised at the beginning of his term five years ago - a ''rupture'' with the past - but not what he has delivered, which is a stagnant economy and unemployment at its highest level in 12 years?

Even more troubling for Mr Sarkozy, the polls indicate that many French simply do not like him - his negative ratings are high - and that many of them will vote in the second round for the bland Mr Hollande or simply stay home rather than see Mr Sarkozy back in the Elysee Palace for another five years.

Mr Sarkozy is running hard to place first on Sunday, to give him momentum going into the second round. And even if he trails Mr Hollande, he will remember that in 1995, Jacques Chirac trailed his Socialist rival in the first round and won anyway.

But to win on May 6, Mr Sarkozy would need the votes of many who will choose either the far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen, or the centrist, Francois Bayrou. Some experts suggest Mr Sarkozy may need as much as two-thirds of the voters from each of those two very different camps to win. That will require a difficult balancing act, the experts say.

''The trend is not good for Sarkozy; the gap is widening,'' said Pierre Haski, the editor of the online newspaper Rue89.

''He's facing a real dilemma, because he needs to talk to two completely different constituencies, Bayrou and Le Pen.''

Mr Hollande faces a threat from his left - from the rabble-rousing former Socialist Jean-Luc Melenchon, who is challenging Ms Le Pen for third place in the polls. But many say his followers are likely to hold their noses and vote for Mr Hollande, simply to defeat the right.

Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/polls-show-france-will-choose-bland-over-bling-20120420-1xc7k.html#ixzz1udgsRicK
