Sarkozy, Hollande Progress as Polls Show Le Pen on Record

Read more: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2012/04/22/bloomberg_articlesM2W7E20UQVI901-M2WA4.DTL#ixzz1ulDaUdjl


April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Socialist Francois Hollande and President Nicolas Sarkozy progressed to the second round of France's presidential election as a record vote for the anti- immigrant National Front left the contest open.

Hollande won between 29 percent and 29.3 percent of the vote, according to early projections from four pollsters. Sarkozy got between 25.5 percent and 27 percent, the estimates showed. The anti-euro Marine Le Pen won between 18.2 percent and 20.1 percent, the polls showed. Official results may be published later today or early tomorrow.

Sarkozy and Hollande will now square off in two weeks to win over an electorate spooked by unemployment at a 12-year high, immigration and the euro region's worsening financial crisis. Sarkozy has targeted Le Pen voters by promising tougher border controls, while Hollande has attacked the president's economic record over the past five years.

"This is a real surprise," said Vincent Tiberj of the European Research Center at Science Po. in Paris. "The combined score of the left is not as strong as expected. Francois Hollande had a good first round but he has fewer reserves than expected. The second round will be a tighter race than expected. Sarkozy will have no choice but to continue to move right."

Le Pen's showing is the highest ever for the National Front, surpassing the 16.9 percent that propelled her father into the second round in 2002. That was eventually won by Jacques Chirac.

French Angst

Communist Party-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon got around 11 percent and self-styled centrist Francois Bayrou won 9 percent, the polls showed. The four estimates were made by Ipsos, TNS Sofres, CSA and Harris Interactive.

Le Pen's showing is the highest ever for the National Front, surpassing the 16.9 percent that propelled her father into the second round in 2002. That was eventually won by Jacques Chirac.

Her performance surpassed the predictions of pollsters before the vote and underscores French angst about immigration, terrorism and the global financial crisis. Terrorism came to the fore during the campaign when seven people were killed in Toulouse by a self-proclaimed jihadist.

"In this new world, if France doesn't want to submit, France must be strong," Sarkozy said in the letter to voters two weeks ago. "Europe should protect us, instead it has aggravated our difficulties," he said.

Sarkozy Challenge

Sarkozy is nevertheless the first incumbent president since 1958 not to go into the second round with a lead. His term has been dominated by a financial crisis which started just months after taking office in May 2007 and is still ricocheting through Europe's bond markets.

Hollande has pounced on his economic record, pointing to an unemployment rate that now risen to 9.8 percent. France's economy has also been hurt by the euro region's debt crisis, which contributed to France losing its AAA credit rating for the first time in January.

Sarkozy called the downgrade a non-event, saying it "changes nothing" and he has found vindication in the markets.

Read more: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2012/04/22/bloomberg_articlesM2W7E20UQVI901-M2WA4.DTL#ixzz1ulDejNaV
