Sarkozy vs. Hollande: Voting begins in France

Final opinion poll gives Socialist Party candidate victory in first round at 29%, followed by Sarkozy with 25.5%.

PARIS ¡V Voting kicked off Sunday in France's Presidential race. President Nicolas Sarkozy needs to beat his principal challenger, Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande, by several percent in Sunday¡¦s first round election if he wants to win the final and decisive round on May 6, opinion poll specialists say.

A member of Sarkozy¡¦s campaign team has calculated that for him to have a chance to win reelection, it is essential that Sunday¡¦s combined total vote for Hollande and Left Front candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon not be above 45 percent, and for the right-wing bloc to beat the left-wing parties by 2 or 3 points. Most of Melenchon¡¦s supporters are expected to vote for Hollande in the two-man runoff on May 6.

¡§Hollande ¡V Sarkozy: The battle for the first place¡¨ was a headline in the newspaper Le Figaro, along with: ¡§The curtain has fallen on the first act.¡¨

The first part of the campaign finished on Friday at midnight. From that time, the law imposes a reporting embargo on opinion polls and the media, who are required to maintain a blackout on news until the last polling station closes on Sunday night at 8 p.m. Most polling stations which are in public schools will close between 6 and 7.

Pollsters have ¡§signed an agreement not to communicate with foreign media who want to violate the French law,¡¨ Marie Eve Aubin, president of the Opinion Polls Commission, told the press, for example RTBF Belgium French-language television, which intends to do so by releasing poll numbers via the Internet.

The commission has established a surveillance unit to scan the Web and the social networks, and the Conseil superieur de l¡¦audiovisuel has set up a similar team. The fine for any offense: 75,000 euros for an individual and 375,000 euros for an organization. And a tweet that snowballs? If some one retweets it, it amounts to two offenses.

On Saturday, a final opinion poll carried out for Le Monde, Radio France and French television gave Hollande the victory in the first round at 29%, followed by Sarkozy with 25.5%, Marine Le Pen from the National Front with 16%, Melenchon with 14% and Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou with 10%. The five other candidates split the remaining 5.5%, with more going to the left-wingers among them.

Other polls put Sarkozy and Hollande nose to nose, some even had Sarkozy ahead, but all predicted he would lose in the second poll by 44% to 56%.

Franck Louvrier, Sarkozy¡¦s spin doctor (communication adviser), said hopefully that ¡§the polls are contradictory, a lot of voters will decide at the last minute.¡¨

Sarkozy wrote a 36-page letter to the French people before calling for their help during a rally at the Place de la Concorde in Paris on April 15, trying to motivate the third of them telling pollsters they would abstain or didn¡¦t know who they¡¦d vote for.

¡§Everyone come vote on Sunday, because the forces assembled against us are vast,¡¨ he told some 10,000 supporters in Nice on Friday, including Bernadette Chirac, the wife of the former president, and the singer Enrico Macias.