Le Pen Scores Highest Vote In French Election

Far-rightist Marine Le Pen has stunned European political observers by scoring nearly 19-percent in the first round of French presidential elections on Sunday.

Socialist favorite Francois Hollande won the first round with 28.2-percent, and center-right incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy came in second with 27.0-percent, reports Reuters. Le Pen came in third with 18.6-percent, and far-left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon placed a distant fourth with 10.9-percent.

Although she will not go to the second and final round of voting scheduled for next month, Le Pen¡¦s substantial voting bloc will play an important role in who finally becomes president. ¡§A drop in voter intentions for Sarkozy in the final weeks of the campaign appears to have swung to the far-right camp,¡¨ France 24 reports.

Earlier predictions based on the European economic crisis and unemployment figures in France pegged Melenchon to come in third.

¡§Voter surveys show about half of her supporters would back Sarkozy in a second round and perhaps one fifth would vote for Hollande,¡¨ reports MSNBC.

In a rousing speech after the results were announced Sunday night, Sarkozy made swift moves to court the Le Pen faction, vowing to tighten border controls, stop factories leaving France, make work pay and defend law and order.

That may not be enough to win over the far right this time. Le Pen, who took over the National Front in 2011, wants France to abandon the euro currency and restore monetary policy to Paris.

¡§This first round is the start of a vast gathering of right-wing patriots,¡¨ she told cheering supporters at her campaign headquarters, without endorsing either finalist and slamming Sarkozy. ¡§Nothing will ever be the same again.¡¨

Some pundits still believe Hollande will win next month. Two polls released while voting took place on Sunday show the Socialist beating Sarkozy 54-46 in the second round.

¡§Eighty-percent of Melenchon¡¦s votes will go to Francois Hollande while only 35-percent of the votes of Marine Le Pen will be reaped by Nicolas Sarkozy,¡¨ Eric Bonnet, head of opinion studies at the BVA polling firm, told France 24. Bonnet made the prediction before the poll results were announced.

Marine Le Pen¡¦s election result far outpaces her father Jean-Marie Le Pen¡¦s success in 2002, when he bumped off then Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin out of the runoff. Left-wing voters were forced to rally behind conservative Jacques Chirac to keep Le Pen from taking the presidency.

Should Sarokozy lose next month, it will be the first time an incumbent president has done so in the 54-year history of the current electoral system in France.

UPDATE (4/23): CNN reports he final percentages in the vote are:  Hollande ¡V 28.63%; Sarkozy ¡V 27.18%; Le Pen ¡V 17.9%; Jean-Luc Melenchon ¡V 11.11%;  Francois Bayrou ¡V 9.13%.