Hollande claims victory, setting up runoff with Sarkozy for French presidency

Socialist candidate Francois Hollande declared victory Sunday in the first round of France's presidential election, setting up a showdown with incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy in May.

The proclamation, made to a crowd of supporters, is consistent with exit polls detailed on French television. Results from France's interior ministry show the same placement, albeit in a very tight contest.

With about 75% of votes counted late Sunday, Hollande had 27.9% support, followed by Sarkozy at 26.7%. Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen garnered 19.3% of this early vote, Jean-Luc Melenchon on the extreme left had 10.8% and centrist Francois Bayrou had 9.8%.

The gap had tightened appreciably from earlier results, when Hollande held a 6-percentage-point lead with just less than half the votes counted. Still, the order was consistent with exit polls that showed Hollande finishing with 28.4% of the vote, Sarkozy at 25.5% and Le Pen at 20%.

"I want to thank warmly the voters who, through their votes, have placed me in this position," Hollande told supporters in Paris on Sunday night. "This is an act of trust of confidence in my (positions) that I have presented to the French people."

The results set the stage for a May 6 runoff between Hollande and Sarkozy. Under French law, if no candidate wins an absolute majority, the two top candidates faceoff.

The results appeared to be historic, and a bad sign for Sarkozy. Several high-profile Hollande supporters told CNN that a French president running for re-election has never not placed first in the first round of the vote.

In his speech Sunday night in the capital, Sarkozy thanked citizens for voting during what he called "a time of crisis" -- saying "I know (their) worries, and I understand them."

He proposed three debates over the next two weeks, focused on the economy, social issues and foreign policy.

"The French people have the right to truth and clarity," said Sarkozy, who has been an outspoken leader on the global scene even as he has presided over a period of significant economic challenges since taking over in 2007. "Everyone will be able to make their choice with full knowledge."

Yet Aurelie Filippetti, an adviser to Hollande, said Sunday there would only be a single debate on May 2.

"There has always been one debate, and there's no need for (that) to change," she told CNN.

