France's first round of its presidential election is a snapshot of so much wrong with the once proud nation

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2133581/France-presidential-election-2012-First-round-snapshot-wrong-nation.html#ixzz1uYSM6wLk

In a country suffocated by bureaucracy, election day was rendered as low farce by bureaucratic over-reach. It is an arrestable offence in France to disclose election results until the very last polling stations have closed.

The writ of French law does not, however, run across the border into Belgium. Accordingly, Belgium・s French-language newspaper Le Soir contentedly pumped out the figures until their website crashed from the avalanche of French voters eager for the forbidden information through Sunday afternoon. Despite the total breakdown of the embargo as results relayed electronically across France as they arrived, mainstream media was silenced from reporting or noting what their viewers already knew.

Such chaos is an apt commentary on the disorder of French public life.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2133581/France-presidential-election-2012-First-round-snapshot-wrong-nation.html#ixzz1uYSS75EX

Privacy laws have long prevented French readers from knowing the sort of information about their politicians that is considered basic for the functioning of responsible politics in the English-speaking world. Rather than protecting public debate from slouching into a swamp of Anglo-Saxon prurience, the media black-out has allowed corruption to flourish untrammeled and left ordinary citizens poorly placed to distinguish fevered conspiracy from trustworthy revelations of insider misdeeds. If this uncertainty can be exploited by the unscrupulous, it is nonetheless created by the powerful.

Sunday also saw the unhappy spectacle of France・s criminal class voting for their preferred candidates while resting at the French Fifth Republic・s expense. The spectacle of criminals choosing their lawmakers served as a metaphor for the deceit of Nicholas Sarkozy・s election-cycle rhetoric on crime and punishment.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2133581/France-presidential-election-2012-First-round-snapshot-wrong-nation.html#ixzz1uYSTYyR8

Most striking of all, though, were the results.

Two candidates offered France a pronounced change of direction, for better or for worse. The old leftist candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon liberally peppered his campaign rhetoric with calls for a Europe-wide revolution, drawing supporters bearing Soviet flags to rallies endorsed by France・s old Communist party, yet after an initial insurgency, his vote fell below the hopes of his ．Left Alliance・. France took a hard look at a return to classic socialism and for then declined the invitation.

The Front National・s Marine Le Pen, however, now commands the support of a fifth of French voters, a record performance for her party. Her claim to embody the opposition in France is now credible and it is clear that increasing numbers of French voters agree that she has detoxified the party, creating a respectable block opposed to the loss of French sovereignty from an organisation that had struggled previously to shake off the stain of past extremism. The future for Marine Le Pen is bright. She has demonstrated a political capacity it was unclear she possessed and she is the most popular politician in France among the young. Outside observers of French political who have contented themselves with labelling her party with terms of abuse will have to accept that a more complex phenomenon is at issue.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2133581/France-presidential-election-2012-First-round-snapshot-wrong-nation.html#ixzz1uYSVb8RQ

Her strong vote has to be understood beside the collapse of legitimacy of the main parties. The muddy centre of French politics continues to lose legitimacy in the eyes of the electorate. The final round of the presidential election will see a run-off between the incumbent  Nicholas Sarkozy and the Socialist Francois Hollande, but between them they scarcely secured a majority of votes cast during the first round. For any country to see its establishment parties approaching the point at which they are collectively in a minority is a landmark event.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2133581/France-presidential-election-2012-First-round-snapshot-wrong-nation.html#ixzz1uYSXFBlY

Sarkozy and Hollande present a poor choice for France. It will not do to throw up one・s hands and say that the two are identical, or even that there are no differences of note between them. The Socialist Party・s Hollande possesses the unfeigned instincts of an unreconstructed leftist, freely volunteering his dislike for France・s rich when not promising to subject high-earners to growth-destroying punitive taxation. Nicholas Sarkozy has the merit of having been prepared on occasion to use French military force to advance Western interests, although it is hard to rustle up many issues on which he has not been cynically duplicitous for purely electoral ends.

What is dismaying is that France must now choose between two candidates neither of whom have the least intention of repairing her self-respect through restoring her capacity for self-government. Whether or not France can escape her impending servitude to Brussels remains to be seen. She has in any case deprived herself of the prospect of withdrawing from this humiliating encroachment on terms of her own choosing. Short of another unforeseen twist to a largely dispiriting election, we are likely to watch a once great nation continue its fatalistic slouch into the mediocrity of late European social democracy.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2133581/France-presidential-election-2012-First-round-snapshot-wrong-nation.html#ixzz1uYSZKZD5
