Defections, poll plunge hit Sarkozy¡¦s prospects

French President Nicolas Sarkozy¡¦s re-election hopes suffered a double setback four days from the first round of voting when a string of public defections compounded the impression that his tumble in opinion polls is pushing victory beyond reach.
Former town planning minister Fadela Amara joined a growing list of political figures to desert the conservative Sarkozy and announce they will vote for his arch-rival, Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande.
That followed the most devastating opinion poll for weeks, which showed Hollande has opened a five-point lead over Sarkozy in the first ballot next Sunday, and the Socialist has a yawning 16-point advantage in voting intentions for the May 6 run-off.
After a week of steady poll gains for Hollande, the CSA survey released on Thursday night gave him 29% of the first round vote, up two points from the institute¡¦s previous survey, versus 24% for Sarkozy, down two points.
Sarkozy put on a brave face when asked during an interview on BFM TV what he thought of the latest poll showing Hollande on course to become the first Socialist president since Francois Mitterrand left office in 1995.
¡§There¡¦s not much point in commenting (on the polls) when they¡¦re good and then commenting on the others because they¡¦re bad,¡¨ he said.
Amara, one of the left-of-centre figures Sarkozy recruited to government in the first years after his 2007 election, joined Corinne Lepage, an ecologist former environment minister in a previous centre-right government, who said she would back Hollande because Sarkozy had lurched too far to the right.
Sarkozy¡¦s conservative predecessor Jacques Chirac, 79, is also planning to vote for Hollande, according to the man who helped him write an autobiography after 12 years as head of state from 1995 until 2007.
Sarkozy said people should leave the old man in peace and not ¡§manipulate¡¨ him.
Others who have said that they will vote Hollande despite having served in office under Sarkozy or Chirac include former high commissioner on poverty Martin Hirsch, equal opportunities junior minister Azouz Begag and former culture minister Jean-Jacques Aillagon.
Nevertheless, UMP senator and former minister Chantal Jouanno tweeted that she would vote for Sarkozy despite ¡§personal reasons to be against him¡¨.
¡§I will vote for him because he is the only one to dare ... confront France¡¦s problems,¡¨ she said.
French media noted Sarkozy¡¦s fatalism, with the left-leaning Liberation daily saying that he was ¡§overplaying his serenity¡¨ by visiting a sea rescue naval yard while ¡§the morale of his troops has been taking on water for days¡¨.
¡§The theme is sea rescue,¡¨ noted a journalist during Tuesday¡¦s visit in northwestern region Brittany, a traditional Socialist bastion. ¡§Does a candidate need saving?¡¨
Sarkozy drily remarked on the wit of the naval-themed question ¡V saying ¡§Exceptional. Such talent¡¨ ¡V but refused to answer.
Even the pro-government Le Figaro daily described Sarkozy as ¡§detached and relaxed¡¨ during his Brittany trip, with the right-winger to attend another rally in northern Socialist bastion Arras later.
Le Figaro put the his losses in opinion polls down to an ¡§apparent hesitation¡¨ between more right-wing or centrist strategies that had benefited centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and the far-right¡¦s Marine Le Pen.
In an unusual departure from its editorial line, Le Figaro said Sarkozy kept repeating that ¡§there will be surprises¡¨ in the vote ¡§like a mantra¡¨ and that in Brittany, his ¡§heart wasn¡¦t really in it¡¨.
Opinion polls in March put security-conscious Sarkozy briefly ahead of Hollande after Mohamed Merah¡¦s Al Qaeda-inspired killing spree in and around southern city Toulouse, but since then Hollande has pulled back in front.
An aide to Sarkozy told Liberation: ¡§We absolutely have to come out ahead in the first round, or it¡¦s going to be impossible.¡¨
The latest poll from BVA, published yesterday, said Hollande would beat Sarkozy in the first round on Sunday 29.5% to 27.5% and again in the May 6 second round 56% to 44%, a wide margin of victory.
The poll also said far-right candidate Le Pen would win 14% of votes, the Left Front¡¦s Jean-Luc Melenchon 13% and centrist candidate Bayrou 12%.
Such a result would make this the first French presidential election in which five candidates win over 10% of votes in the first round, an expression of voter dissatisfaction with the Socialist-UMP binary.
¡§This shows both the big difficulty in breaking the two-party system and that a lot of people aren¡¦t happy with this two-party system and that they want other options,¡¨ said Bruno Jeanbart of polling company OpinionWay.
Bayrou, who has not said whom he back if as expected he is eliminated on Sunday¡¦s first ballot, played down the defectors to Hollande as ¡§those who always want their hands on the lever, to be on side with the powers that be¡¨.
¡§You can¡¦t build a country with people who are here one day and there the next,¡¨ he said.
Asked whether he might announce between the two rounds his intention to appoint Bayrou prime minister if re-elected, Sarkozy said: ¡§I¡¦m waiting to see the first round and I tell you that it¡¦s not impossible that I¡¦ll do that.¡¨
Hollande warned his supporters against complacency or prematurely carving up government posts and reaffirmed in a France Inter radio interview that he would renegotiate a European budget discipline treaty to give priority to restoring growth, without which it would be impossible to reduce debt.
France to target early poll leaks on websites
France is planning to clamp down on the publication of exit polls and election results ahead of their official release, especially on social media, the poll watchdog said yesterday, four days before the first round of the presidential election.
French law forbids pollsters from releasing vote estimates on election day and the day before, but the emergence of technology such has Twitter has made it more difficult to control potential leaks of voting trends.
The Poll Commission, which regulates pollsters, is due to outline tomorrow the measures it will take to prevent leaks on sites such as Twitter and Facebook as well as traditional media after newspaper Liberation hinted it might break the embargo.
¡§The aim is to protect the last voter to vote,¡¨ a commission member told Reuters, without specifying what the measures would be.
However, there is little the commission can do to prevent people from consulting the websites of media in Belgium and Switzerland which routinely report exit polls in French election in the hours before results are officially published from 8pm (1800 GMT).
Polls close at 6pm though in big cities it is 8pm.
During the first round of France¡¦s 2007 election, the websites of several Swiss and Belgian newspapers crashed under the weight of French web surfers trying to consult them, prompting some to boost their capacity before the 2012 election.