France¡¦s First-Round Vote Doesn¡¦t Always Dictate Second

French President Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist challenger, Francois Hollande, are racing to get ahead in the first round of French elections Sunday. But if history is any guide, trying to guess who will be the next president of France using the first round of the elections as a proxy may be a dangerous exercise.

Here are the results of the first round of the last six presidential elections in France:

In each line, from left to right, the candidates have been ordered by the percentage of votes they garnered. So, if these data were any indication to the election¡¦s final result, the first column on the left should be a list of the Elysee tenants in the past 44 years, right? That¡¦s not the case.

If the first round were a reliable indicator, Socialist candidate Francois Mitterrand would have been elected president in 1974, when he scored a stellar 43%, not far from the 50% threshold that would have handed him the presidency with no need for more voting. In reality, he had to wait seven years to push Valery Giscard d¡¦Estaing, a conservative, out of the Elysee. In 1981, when Messrs. Giscard and Mitterrand ran against each other again, Mr. Giscard¡¦s first-round 3 percentage point lead on his competitor wasn¡¦t enough to secure him a second mandate.

In 1995, voters propelled Lionel Jospin, a Socialist, to the run off, with a two-percentage-point advance on Jacques Chirac, then the conservative mayor of Paris. But Mr. Jospin didn¡¦t make it any further. (Eventually, he got a consolation prize two years later, when Mr. Chirac would be forced to appoint him prime minister.)

The story behind each set of figures is as long as a presidential campaign: months of meetings, barb-trading and secret pacts. In one word: electioneering, which happens in every country.

What is particular to France, though, is the schizophrenic element introduced by the country¡¦s electoral system. In two-round elections, candidates first strive to gather their own supporters ¡X as it happens in the U.S. primaries ¡X and then expand their consensus outside their original electoral base.  In other words, the candidates who are defeated in the first round remain crucial to the election.

In 1974, Mr. Mitterrand gathered massive first-round support, but Mr. Giscard could count on the votes of Jacques Chaban Delmas, another conservative. The 1995 election can be explained in a similar way: when Mr. Jospin and Mr. Chirac squared off against each other, the outgoing president could count on those conservatives who had picked Edouard Balladur instead of him in the first round.

Polls say Sunday¡¦s vote will produce two winners ¡V Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Hollande. Behind them, a group of three candidates ¡V Marine Le Pen, of the National Front, Jean-Luc Melenchon, of the Leftist Front, and Francois Bayrou, of the MoDem ¡V will control about 40% of the vote between them.

They won¡¦t have a ballot with their name on May 6, but they¡¦ll somehow take part in the second round.

Here is the list of the actual presidents of France since 1974:

2007   Sarkozy
2002   Chirac
1995    Chirac
1988    Mitterrand
1981    Mitterrand
1974   Giscard