LeBron James didn¡¦t prove anything with Game 6 performance 

LeBron James didn¡¦t win anything Thursday night. Except the right to play another game.

He didn¡¦t shut anybody up. He didn¡¦t exorcise any demons. He didn¡¦t change anybody¡¦s mind. After a magnificent 45-point, 15-rebound performance against the Celtics in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals that was as much about fortitude as it was about points or rebounds, Lebron still is everything anybody thinks he is: the best player in the NBA, with transcendent skills but a history of being unable to lead a team to a championship.

Game 6 was the easy part. Down 3-2 on the road, James was in desperation mode, with nothing to lose ¡X which is when he¡¦s often at his best. He¡¦s the king of the first-quarter buzzer beater. He¡¦s more often a crunch-time performer early in a playoff series than late. Or when his team is down 3-1.

His closing performance against the Bulls last year in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference finals was classic LeBron ¡X down 12 points with 3:14 left, he followed Dwyane Wade¡¦s lead and sparked the Heat¡¦s 18-3 run that won the game and clinched the series. James deserves his due credit for a memorable clutch performance. But it wasn¡¦t Game 7. It wasn¡¦t the NBA Finals. While it¡¦s a shame that people are rooting for him to fail, it¡¦s not unfair to expect more out of the best player in the game. That doesn¡¦t make you a ¡¥¡¥hater.¡¦¡¦ It makes you an NBA fan.

As impressive as James¡¦ performance was in Game 6 against the Celtics, it didn¡¦t erase last year¡¦s NBA Finals from the history books. LeBron¡¦s diminishing production and fourth-quarter silence was undeniably a stunning meltdown for a player of his stature. He scored 18 fourth-quarter points in six games ¡X half of them were scored when his team either trailed or led by 10 points or more. The only two fourth-quarter points he scored in a two-possession game was a basket in Game 3 when the Heat led 67-64 ¡X with 11:39 left in the game.

Nobody wants to hear about James¡¦ monster numbers in the playoffs ¡X the argument isn¡¦t whether or not he¡¦s a great player. And while he¡¦s had his moments in the postseason ¡X not even Jordan hit a buzzer-beating three-pointer like James did to beat the Magic in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals in 2009 ¡X those moments aren¡¦t nearly enough to trump James¡¦ playoff failures when it comes to defining him as a postseason performer.

If James can come through with another stellar performance in Game 7 on Saturday and lead the Heat to the Eastern Conference title, more power to him. His demeanor throughout Game 6 indicated he might have broken through whatever barrier prevented him from making the difference in last year¡¦s Finals. I¡¦d like to think I represent a large segment of basketball fans willing to give LeBron his due as a playoff performer on a level with Magic Johnson, Larry Bird and Michael Jordan. But he¡¦s got to earn it. Game 6 against the Celtics was a small step for LeBron James. He¡¦s still a few giant leaps from redemption.