Celtics fan stabbed post-Game 6

(NECN: Alysha Palumbo, Boston) - Just minutes after the Boston Celtics were blown out by the Miami Heat at the Garden Thursday night, a sea of mostly dejected fans flooded Causeway and surrounding streets.

But as one group of hometown fans was walking down Beverly Street toward the footpath to Charlestown, they met up with a group of Heat fans and a fight began.

According to Boston Police, witnesses said both groups began arguing loudly, then one Miami fan pulled out a large switch-blade knife and stabbed a Celtics fan in the leg.

"I think it・s a tough situation, I think people kind of lose their mind every now and then, but hopefully, we do walk around here a lot, hopefully they・ll have some surveillance or police presence for a couple of days," said Ben Lewis, who works in the area.

"I・m surprised, I wouldn・t have expected something like that to happen, I guess after a big game, like Ben said, people just do crazy things," said Stephanie Lally, who also works in the area.

Others say it・s not surprising, given the amount of people in the area and the supercharged rivalry between fans of the two teams.

"Because we live in a major metropolitan area and when fans get together I guess there・s a lot of drinking," said Mary Runkel.

"Growing up in Charlestown it doesn・t concern me, I grew up in Charlestown, I・m almost 50-years-old, so I・ve seen a lot worse, it・s a terrible tragedy but nowadays it・s more the norm than it is anything else," said Jim Daniel, a Charlestown resident. "So I don・t think people are phased by it anymore."

Some Charlestown residents like Dan Harvey walk this route everyday to get to and from work.

He says he・s never seen anything like this happen here before.

"There・s a police presence after every game, so they can・t be everywhere, but it・s unfortunate and I hope the guy・s okay," said Harvey.
 
The 22-year-old male victim was transported to Mass General Hospital.

Police say his injuries are not life-threatening.

They're asking anyone with information about this stabbing to call their CrimeStoppers Tipline at 1-800-494-TIPS.

The victim was transported by to Mass General Hospital suffering from non-life threatening injuries. 