Game 6 loss creates national surprise of Celtics¡¦ lack of heart

After the Celtics dropped Game 6 in front of an energetic crowd at ¡§The Jungle,¡¨ fans and writers nationally wondered what happened to Boston¡¦s heart, and noted LeBron James¡¥ very clutch, 45-point performance.

The loss prompted NBA¡¦s Shaun Powell to question if the Celtics can mount a performance energetic enough to win Game 7.

¡§Given a chance to win on their home floor, the Celtics folded like a paper airplane, raising suspicion that their best game could be behind them,¡¨ Powell wrote.

Some fans responded by calling out the Celtics for not showing up to play, while others praised James¡¦ performance. Most fans said they weren¡¦t surprised by the game¡¦s outcome and a few added it will be hard to predict the winner of Game 7.

¡§The way I see it, the playoffs is all about adjustments,¡¨ one fan wrote. ¡§Boston won game 5, Miami made adjustments and came back to win game 6. Boston is in the better position right now, because they can only adjust to what they did wrong in the last game. The Heat do not have the grace of hindsight on their side right now because they are coming off of a win. Barring an amazing game by LeBron AND [Dwyane] Wade (yes they both will have to step up for this one), the Celtics determination and coaching staff will see them to the Finals. Don¡¦t think that LeBron¡¦s game was all about him, [coach Erik] Spoeltsra put him in better situations to score the ball judging on what wasn¡¦t working in Game 5.¡¨

On fan expressed disappointment with Boston¡¦s effort on FoxSports¡¦ recap.

¡§I was shocked at the lack of effort from the Celt¡¦s last night,¡¨ the fan wrote. ¡§It looked like none of them wanted to be there. Maybe [NBA commissioner David] Stern promised them a blockbuster trade next year if they would lose.¡¨

USA Today¡¦s Adi Joseph responded to Boston¡¦s loss by saying the Celtics need to be fixed because ¡§nothing worked¡¨ for the team.

ESPN¡¦s Skip Bayless was one media personalty who admitted Boston¡¦s loss, and James¡¦ stunning performance, didn¡¦t surprise him.

Lower expectations, Heat as ¡§underdogs,¡¨ most ppl thinking Boston big ¡V LeBron goes off. Predictable. But NOW the pressure returns, Bayless tweeted.

The focus may have stayed on the Celtics if James lashed at critics by recording 45 points on the night. His clutch performance directed most reaction from the game his way, and most praised James¡¦, even those surprised by his performance.

On NBC Sports, Kurt Helln focused on King James, saying the superstar needs to rise in Game 7 to bring Miami the series victory.

¡§LeBron¡¦s 45/15/5 was better than Boston¡¦s entire Big Three (31 points, 13 rebounds, two assists),¡¨ he wrote. ¡§And the only way the Heat can beat Boston in Game 7 and return to the finals is another game like that from LeBron. Again, only he and Wade (17 points) scored in double figures. Miami can only win when one or both of them go off.¡¨

While most of the fans reacted to Helln¡¦s article by applauding James¡¦ performance, others stated their shock over Boston¡¦s old appearance on Thursday night.

James¡¦ performance also stunned ESPN¡¦s Stephen A. Smith, who¡¦s been known for criticizing James.