Defense is the key for Celtics in Game 7 tonight vs. Heat

MIAMI ¡V In 110 seven-game series since 1946-47, the road team has won 22 times and just seven times in the conference finals.

Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers dismissed the unfavorable odds immediately.

"Yeah, and?" he said.

The Celtics already have one road win against the Heat in this series and beat Miami here in April, one of three victories for Boston against the Heat in the final month of the regular season

But Game 7 on the road tonight (8:30 ET, ESPN) for a spot against the Oklahoma City Thunder in the NBA Finals is different.

"It's always nicer to have it at home, clearly, but let's be honest," Rivers said Saturday morning. "If you had told me before the playoffs started that you can have a Game 7 to decide to go the Finals, we would have taken it and we didn't care where we would have played. So in a lot of ways, we love being here."

This is Miami's first Game 7 in the LeBron James, Dwayne Wade, Chris Bosh era. The Celtics have Game 7 experience as a franchise and with the core group of Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen and Rajon Rondo.

Boston has made a decision to play James one-on-one as much as possible and double-team Wade. James shot 19-of-26 in Game 6. But before Rivers makes any drastic changes to his defensive scheme, he wants to see how the Celtics defend as Rivers wants. He didn't think they did that in Game 6.

"Defensively, for the most part, we have to do it better," Rivers said. "Obviously, LeBron had a great game. There were things we should have done better in the game with the way we were playing him, and we didn't do that. That's the first thing we have to correct. Then if we have to do something else, we'll do it."

Rivers said Miami instigated the action and was the aggressor from the start of Game 6, and Boston didn't respond.

"If during the game someone is going off, Wade or LeBron or Bosh or somebody else, we're ready to make a change if we have to," Rivers said. "We have to do it our way first better, and then we'll find out what else we need to do."

James had 45 points, 10 rebounds and five assists in Miami's Game 6 victory at Boston, extending the series the distance. He is averaging 34 points, 10.8 rebounds and 4.2 assists against the Celtics.

The Celtics are 21-7 in Game 7s, last winning one this season against the Philadelphia 76ers in the Eastern Conference semifinals. Since 2008, Boston is 4-2 in Game 7s, but has lost its last two on the road ¡X against the Orlando Magic in the 2009 conference finals and against the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2010 Finals.

"They've been in this situation, but like I've said, they've never been in this situation against this team," Rivers said of the Celtics. "Every Game 7 is different. Every game is different. You have to try to figure out how much information to give them and how much is too much and try to walk the right line."

The Celtics matched up against James once before in a Game 7. In 2008 they defeated James and the Cleveland Cavaliers 97-92 in the final game of a conference semifinals series.

It was a classic James-Pierce showdown. James had 45 points, six assists, five rebounds and two steals; Pierce had 41 points, five assists, four rebounds and two steals.

James' game has improved, with three regular-season MVPs awards since. Pierce's skills aren't what they were but the All-Star forward is still dangerous. However, James has been the superior player in this series.

Pierce is averaging 17.8 points and shooting just 33.6% from the field (38-of-113) and 25% on three-pointers (8-of-32) against Miami.

James said it's perfect the Celtics are in the way of another trip to the Finals. He has played the Celtics in three of the last four postseasons, losing to them in 2008 and 2010 and beating them last season.

"It's only right, it's only fitting for me that I would play them ¡K to get to the Finals," James said Saturday. "I did it last year, did it the previous two years in Cleveland.

"It's been the same for me. I understand what they're capable of, I understand what their makeup is. I've faced every last one of them. Those same four guys have been there since I've been playing in the postseason."

This Game 7 is loaded with drama and what ifs:

¡EWhat if the Heat lose, what kind of changes are in store?

¡EWhat if Boston loses, is this the last game together for Pierce, Garnett, Allen and Rondo?

Garnett and Allen are free agents after this season, and it's no guarantee they return even on one-year deals. President of basketball operations Danny Ainge has flirted with changing direction, and this might be the right time.

Rivers isn't allowing himself to think about those "what ifs" today: "I'm not going to let myself go down that road. I would like to talk about that in two or three weeks from now."

Earlier in the series, Rivers said he plans for roster changes after every season, so deep down he is realistic about the possibility of an era ending tonight.

"You can never take any season for granted," Rivers said. "Hell, we win this series, it may not be the same Miami team next year. Really. I tell players that all the time. There is no guarantee for next year. Every year you have to play like this is the last time this group you're with will ever play together.

"And most of the time that's going to be true whether you win or lose. So I think we understand that, but I think they do, too. And so I think both teams feel that type of pressure."