Celtics Victimized by Bosh's Game 7 Coming Out Party: A Fan's Outlook

The Philadelphia 76ers held out as long as they could before the Boston Celtics finally knocked them out in the second round. As such, Sixers fans like myself appreciate the irony of the Eastern Conference Finals, as the Celtics held out as long as they could against the Miami Heat before crumbling at the end of Game 7 on June 9. And while Philadelphia will be haunted by Rajon Rondo's late explosion in its own Game 7 loss, Chris Bosh and the united Miami Big Three will haunt Boston this offseason.

The Celtics were able to endure LeBron James and Dwayne Wade for much of this series, while Bosh slowly returned from injury starting in Game 5. However, Bosh finally got big minutes in Game 7 and showed Boston what Miami's Big Three can really do, providing the last piece of the puzzle for the Heat's 101-88 victory.

This postseason has proven how valuable Bosh has been to the Heat, although he was derided as the weakest member of the Big Three since he arrived with James. First his absence nearly derailed Miami against the Indiana Pacers and helped push it to the brink of elimination against Boston. But with Bosh back, the Heat found what they were missing to put the Celtics away for good.

It took a while, given that Boston took an 11 point lead late in the first half and was ahead by seven at halftime. But in the second half, Bosh not only got going, he even made three very rare three-pointers to help Miami come back. With Bosh fully back in action, he and James and Wade united to take control of Game 7 - just as they were supposed to take control of the NBA ever since summer 2010.

If this was the last ride of Boston's Big Four, then Miami's Big Three certainly seized the torch away in the most convincing fashion. The Heat finally pulled away with 28 fourth quarter points that were all scored by James, Wade and Bosh. Yet with Bosh also scoring points and taking some heat away from James and Wade, it was the final proof of just how valuable he really is after all.

While Bosh scored the least points out of the Big Three, this was really his coming out party that proved he does belong alongside James and Wade. It also proved the Celtics may have gotten lucky by pushing the Heat this far, since they might not have done it if Bosh was healthy for the whole series.

But because Boston couldn't fully take advantage, it ultimately gave out once Miami had all its weapons back. And while James and Wade may get the lion's share of the credit for the Heat moving on, the Celtics will lament how Bosh provided the big late assist to finally put them down. 