Spurs, Thunder battle nerves as lengthy layoff ends tonight

SAN ANTONIO ¡V If the lengthy layoff for the San Antonio Spurs and Oklahoma City Thunder calmed anyone's nerves, it wasn't evident as the West's top teams practiced for the final time before tonight's start to the conference finals.

"At the beginning of the series you always have uncertainty. You have appropriate fear; you respect your opponent," Spurs sixth man Manu Ginobili said Sunday morning. "You practice, you plan, and then you see what comes out of that. Of course there is excitement."

The Thunder returned to the site of perhaps their most glaring regular-season failure, when Spurs All-Star point guard Tony Parker scored 42 points in a 107-106 win in the 23rd game of the season. An anxious energy prevailed.

"I'm very nervous. Nervous is good," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said after a morning shootaround at the AT&T Center. "If you're not nervous you don't care about what you do ¡X and we care about what we do. We have a great opportunity."

The Thunder face a Spurs team that has not lost in the postseason, is riding an 18-game winning streak dating to April 12 and shared the best regular-season home record with the Miami Heat.

"The crowd is going to be into it. It's going to be tough to play," Thunder star Kevin Durant said. "But on the road is where we all come together more as a group and hopefully we get it done."

"We're looking forward to the opportunity to go for a championship," Durant added. "We have to take advantage of the moment."

Opening on the road will be a test. In the 2010 first-round loss to the Los Angeles Lakers and last year's Western Finals series loss to the Dallas Mavericks, the Thunder opened on the road and were defeated.

"We're all competitive guys," Durant said. "We know what they've done. We respect what they've done, but that was in the past. They've been playing well lately.

"We're 8-1 in the playoffs, as well. None of the guys are in awe. We respect what they've done. They've built a dynasty."

Stephen Jackson is in his second stint with the Spurs, coming to the team in a midseason trade with the Milwaukee Bucks. After a week of "semi-games and scrimmages," he was raring to go.

"I'm not saying we didn't respect our other opponents, but we definitely respect these guys," Jackson said. "They're a great young team, a hungry team, a very talented team. I don't think we would want it any other way.

"I'm excited it's today."

Thunder sixth man James Harden told USA TODAY Sports that the key to the series will be limiting the kind of lane penetration that Parker is known for, and ditching the nervousness.

The last time Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook took the floor at San Antonio's AT&T Center, he played reluctant foil to Parker. He watched the veteran star slash the lane, nail uncontested runners and kick the ball to wide-open teammates on the perimeter.

Westbrook fumed and clenched his fists in frustration, finishing with 18 points on 8-for-16 shooting with six rebounds and six assists to Parker's 42 points, nine assists and two steals.

"Their penetration is the key. We have to protect the paint and not let them get into the paint to kick out threes," Harden said.

"I think we're all nervous, as far as reaching this point again. I'm going to be nervous until I check in the game. It's a good nervous. We've got a sense of urgency."

Ginobili has not played against the Thunder this season because of injuries and said it would be "kind of awkward" to get his first shot in the conference finals.

He had the company line down pat about the challenge the Thunder provide.

"We both deserve it to be here. We were the two best teams in the West for the whole season," Ginobili said. "What they're doing is impressive. Their best players are 23, 22 and already have played in the conference finals. You've got to give those guys credit, what they can accomplish in the future is enormous.

"Of course we respect them. ¡K We know how talented they are. ¡K We're going to try to use what we have ¡X our experience, our depth ¡X and try to put them in trouble."