Spurs-Thunder Matchup Is Not Exactly Second Fiddle

SAN ANTONIO ¡X For star power and panache, what happens in the Eastern Conference finals between the Miami Heat and the Boston Celtics may be at the center of the N.B.A. universe. 

For some fans, an injury report on the Heat¡¦s Chris Bosh may move the needle more than the Western Conference finals between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder.

But the two best teams in the West have survived and are expected to play a captivating series here at AT&T Center.

Some of the low-key San Antonio and Oklahoma City stars may even prefer to remain in the shadows as they look to stamp a legacy on their franchises.

Oklahoma City wants to establish one after losing in last year¡¦s conference finals to Dallas, the eventual champion. The Thunder are 8-1 in these playoffs, and beat the Los Angeles Lakers in the second round, which would make a victory over San Antonio a natural progression for its young core of stars: Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook and James Harden, all of them in their early 20s.

¡§What they¡¦re doing is impressive,¡¨ Spurs guard Manu Ginobili said. ¡§Their best players are 23, 22 and already have played in the conference finals. You¡¦ve got to give those guys credit. What they can accomplish in the future is enormous.¡¨

The Spurs simply want to cement a dynasty with a fifth N.B.A. championship, adding to those won in 1999, 2003, ¡¦05 and ¡¦07. The aging stars Ginobili, center Tim Duncan and guard Tony Parker know the window on their careers is closing ¡X a powerful motivator that may help explain the efficient manner in which they have rolled through these playoffs with an 8-0 record heading into Sunday night¡¦s series opener.

Including series sweeps of the Utah Jazz and the Los Angeles Clippers, the Spurs had won 18 consecutive games, part of a 29-2 run since March 21. San Antonio was the best 3-point-shooting and highest-scoring team in the league during the regular season, and it has continued that dominance.

In the playoffs, the Spurs were averaging 102.5 points and shooting 49 percent from the field. They were making 42 percent of 3-point attempts, up from 39 percent during the season.

Still, the veteran Spurs also seem to be drawing from last season¡¦s stunning failure. After cruising to the N.B.A.¡¦s best record, they were ousted in the first round, losing in six games to the Memphis Grizzlies.

¡§We¡¦re healthy,¡¨ Duncan said. ¡§We¡¦ve just played a little better; we ended the season a little stronger. There¡¦s not much more than that, and a little bit of luck.¡¨

GINOBILI JOINS FRAY The Spurs won two of three regular-season games with the Thunder, and did so without Manu Ginobili, adding intrigue to the backcourt matchups for at least early in the series.

Sidelined with a fractured left hand, Ginobili missed Oklahoma City¡¦s 108-96 victory on Jan. 8 and the Spurs¡¦ 107-96 win on Feb. 4, a game in which Parker filled the void with 42 points. Ginobili had returned in time for the March 16 game, but was being rested and did not play in San Antonio¡¦s 114-105 victory.

¡§It¡¦s kind of awkward that I haven¡¦t played them,¡¨ Ginobili said. ¡§We¡¦re both going to have to adjust, and fast. The first game will be very important for me to see what¡¦s going on.¡¨

Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich was not in the mood for hypotheticals on what Ginobili¡¦s presence might mean against the Thunder.

¡§I don¡¦t have any idea,¡¨ he said. ¡§What would have happened if he would have played? It¡¦s an impossibility, so I don¡¦t think about it. He¡¦s going to play now.¡¨ 