Spurs Finish Strong for 19th Straight Win

SAN ANTONIO ¡X The San Antonio Spurs looked closer to early retirement than in their ability to keep up with the Oklahoma City Thunder for three quarters Sunday night. Unable to cope with the flash of their younger opponent, the Spurs dipped deep into their reservoir of experience and guile. 

Challenged by Coach Gregg Popovich to get ¡§nasty,¡¨ San Antonio opened the fourth quarter with a 20-5 rush.

The Spurs suddenly transformed their AT&T Center home court into a chessboard and showed why they are the N.B.A.¡¦s grandmasters, moving the Thunder around like pawns in a 101-98 victory in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals.

 The victory extended the Spurs¡¦ unbeaten streak to 19 games, including nine in these playoffs, and gave the Thunder plenty to ponder heading into Game 2 here Tuesday night. Since March 21, San Antonio is 30-2.

The Spurs were led with 26 points from Manu Ginobili, who missed all three meetings with the Thunder this season. Tony Parker finally shook off the tenacious defense of Russell Westbrook and finished with 18 points, 7 in the fourth quarter. Tim Duncan scored 16.

Kevin Durant led all scorers with 27 points and 10 rebounds. James Harden had 19 points and Westbrook 17.

Oklahoma City pulled away with a 10-3 run to close the third quarter, taking a 71-62 lead. In the process, the Thunder¡¦s youthful energy and frenetic pace wore on the Spurs, who were clearly frustrated after being outscored in the period, 24-16.

The TNT broadcast picked up on just how complacent Popovich thought his team had become. ¡§I want some nasty!¡¨ Popovich shouted to his team in the huddle before the start of the fourth quarter.

¡§I talked to them about how they¡¦ve got to get a little bit uglier, get a little more nasty, play with more fiber and take it to these guys,¡¨ Popovich said afterward.

Led by Ginobili and Parker, the Spurs quickly responded with an 11-2 surge that tied the score at 73-73.

¡§They are so athletic, so strong and so fast, we needed to be more aggressive at both ends,¡¨ Ginobili said. ¡§We have to be in good positions and not allow them a straight line to the basket.¡¨

Both teams quickly tried to will their style of play upon each other, and set a clear tone for this best-of-seven series. The Thunder grabbed a 47-46 halftime lead with a quickness on defense that seemed to surprise the Spurs and a 10-4 edge in fast-break points, ignited mostly by 14 San Antonio turnovers, which was one short of its season high for a half.

¡§The first half was awful,¡¨ Duncan said. ¡§It was a very rusty game I thought for us. It was good to get a victory when we didn¡¦t feel like we played all that well.¡¨

Durant had 13 points and Westbrook scored 9 in the half as the two Oklahoma City stars pushed the pace at every opportunity. Derek Fisher came off the bench and made all four of his shots, including a 3-pointer with 11.6 seconds left in the second quarter that gave the Thunder the lead.

The Spurs countered with patience and precision, and outscored the Thunder, 26-16, in the paint, most of those points coming from Kawhi Leonard and Boris Diaw. Duncan was held to 6 points and Parker, with Westbrook glued to him, had only 6 points on 2-of-8 shooting. Ginobili led the Spurs in the first half with 10 points.

The intensity matched the journey for these teams as they look to stamp a legacy on their franchises.

Oklahoma City wants to establish one after losing in last year¡¦s conference finals to Dallas, the eventual N.B.A. champion. The Thunder are 8-2 in these playoffs, and beat the Los Angeles Lakers in the second round, which would make a victory over San Antonio a natural progression for their young core of stars: Durant, Westbrook and Harden, all in their early 20s.

The Spurs simply want to cement a dynasty with a fifth championship, adding to those won in 1999, 2003, ¡¦05 and ¡¦07. The aging stars Ginobili, Duncan and Parker know the window on their careers is closing ¡X a powerful motivator that may help explain the efficient manner in which they have rolled to nine straight wins in these playoffs.

Early on, the Thunder had clogged passing lanes, banged on Duncan and generally disrupted the Spurs¡¦ offensive rhythm. Westbrook embarrassed Parker, flying around a screen and stuffing Parker¡¦s jump shot with shocking ease. Durant did the same to Ginobili a couple of possessions later, and it looked as if San Antonio¡¦s Big Three were going to have trouble finding open shots.

But the savvy Spurs quickly adjusted to the speed and angles being played by the Thunder, and in the end just got plain nasty. 