SAN ANTONIO ¡V Manu Ginobili's late heroics proved to be the difference between two evenly matched starting lineups and a pair of stacked benches in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals Sunday.

The San Antonio guard scored 11 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter as the Spurs rallied for a 101-98 victory against the Oklahoma City Thunder, extending the home team's franchise-record winning streak to 19 games. That includes a 9-0 mark in the playoffs.

Ginobili, 34, bothered by injuries, had not played against the Thunder this season. But the Thunder were rudely reminded of his scoring knack at the most inopportune time and lost for just the second time in the postseason, despite leading for much of the first three quarters.

    BLOG: Four-Point Play: Spurs get 'nasty' in victory
    VIDEO: San Antonio Mayor makes fun of Charles Barkley
    PHOTOS: Top highlights from the NBA postseason

"He's somebody who we depend on to create and make things happen," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said of Ginobili. "Whether it's shooting or driving or assisting somebody else. That's what he's done for us his whole career. And it's very important to us. Without that we have a tough time winning."

The Spurs' winning streak matches the fourth longest in NBA history, and they can become the fourth team to reach 20 in a row here Tuesday in Game 2. Oklahoma City has lost its last five games in San Antonio.

"They're playing the best basketball in the league, and we were right there," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said. "Both teams are going to continue to play hard."

The Spurs, down by nine late in the third quarter, rallied after coach Gregg Popovich, in the huddle, urged them to get "nasty."

What does getting "nasty" mean?

"Basically it means to get all the 50-50 balls," Spurs guard Gary Neal said.

"I thought we were playing for most of the first half, and a little of the third quarter, a little unconfidently," Popovich said after the game. "We had to take it to these guys, meaning, you got to drive, you got to shoot it. You can't hold it.

"We needed to be active and aggressive, and we got that way in the fourth quarter."

The Spurs outscored the Thunder 39-27 in the final 12 minutes. In a telling sequence, Ginobili snuck baseline and took a Tony Parker inbound to the rack beyond a stunned Thunder front court, drawing frustration and giving the Spurs a three-point lead with just over six minutes left to play.

"Manu was great tonight," Parker said. "In the fourth quarter he wanted the ball, and he was very aggressive. He was very active tonight."

In the most-anticipated matchup of the series, Parker earned the slight nod over Oklahoma City's Russell Westbrook only after coming alive in the fourth quarter. Parker finished with 18 points to 17 for Westbrook, who struggled on 7-for-21 shooting from the field.

Westbrook looked intent on not allowing Parker to repeat his 42-point performance here in the Thunder's February loss. Westbrook snuffed a Parker perimeter jumper early in the first quarter, then took the rebound coast-to-coast for a contested layup.

Parker attributed his slow start to rust and took blame for San Antonio's 14 turnovers in the first half.

"It started with me," Parker said. "I didn't make good decisions in the first half. A little bit in a hurry. That comes with not playing for a week. I was going a little bit too fast, getting in trouble. I take responsibility for that."

Things turned around for Parker in the second half, as the Spurs cut down on turnovers and limited Thunder forward Kevin Durant and Westbrook offensively. Durant had a game-high 27 points, but it was mostly Spurs reserve Stephen Jackson who limited him to 8-for-19 shooting from the field.

"They forced me out a little bit," Durant said. "You know, they do a good job in the help defense. But I just got to watch film to see what I can get better at. I think I got good shots tonight. Rebounded the ball, passed the ball. I did things I wanted to do individually. I just got to do it better next game."

Westbrook answered a Spurs third-quarter fast break with a 25-footer, after which he put up three fingers on each hand, blew on them as if they were pistols and holstered each. And for a time, he was in fact done scoring. He missed a 19-footer, had a dunk attempt clang off the back rim, badly missed another three-point attempt and didn't score again until there was 1:21 left to play.

"We were in the game all the way," Westbrook said. "We were just trading baskets with them in the fourth quarter, just wasn't able to knock the shots down we usually knock down. They came away with the win. But we'll be all right."