Four-Point Play: Ginobili, Spurs out-nasty Thunder in Game 1

The Thunder are long, tall and athletic. And like all long, tall and athletic people, they are very good at reaching things. They close out on shooters well and protect the paint with a bevy of capable shot blockers. Popovich knew that, so with his team trailing in the fourth quarter, he demanded a more aggressive approach.

San Antonio negated Oklahoma City's advantages by driving right at them. It doesn't matter how far you can reach when the ball is in your face. So when Manu Ginobili and Tony Parker and Tim Duncan and Tiago Splitter attacked the basket in the fourth quarter, the Spurs went on a run. The NBA's most efficient offense (kids, these are not your older brother's Spurs) dropped 39 points in the fourth quarter, beginning it on a 20-5 run.

The Thunder blocked nine shots in the first three quarters, and San Antonio took advantage by using pump fakes and drawing fouls in the fourth. (Also helping the Spurs: Thunder coach Scott Brooks' decision not to use forward Serge Ibaka, the NBA's top shot-blocker, at all in the final period.) Defensively, San Antonio drew three charges in the period, and Stephen Jackson made life difficult for Thunder star Kevin Durant with physical play even off-ball.

For his part, Popovich showed some humility when discussing his timeout speech, which was caught by TNT's cameras. "I said that? Oh, I said that," he joked in a postgame news conference. "In the heat of the game, sometimes things come out of my mouth. And sometimes it's embarrassing."

The Thunder's starting lineup may be the longest ever assembled. Durant's wingspan reaches nearly 7 feet, 5 inches, while Ibaka and center Kendrick Perkins measure out to 7-4. Shooting guard Thabo Sefolosha has a 7-2 wingspan, and point guard Russell Westbrook's is nearly 6-8. That makes plays such as this block by Durant easier.

Brooks went small for the fourth quarter, but he gave up agility in the paint by using Perkins instead of Ibaka or Nick Collison. Perkins was also playing with four (then, on a great play by Parker, five) fouls, making the hard-nosed defender reticient in contact.

This series will be pegged, perhaps accurately, as a matchup of youth vs. experience. Duncan, Ginobili and Parker are in their 30s, while 28-year-old Perkins is the elder statesman in the Thunder starting lineup. Oklahoma City has undeniable advantages, but the Spurs figured out in the fourth quarter of Game 1 how to counter each of them. Much of the credit goes to Popovich.

If San Antonio continues to counter every Thunder advantage, this series could get nasty.

James Harden's final three-pointer at the end of the game seemed insignificant to all but gamblers. It wasn't. The Thunder sixth man finished with 19 points, but he was mired in his worst game of the playoffs until the fourth quarter. He scored 11 of Oklahoma City's 27 points in the final period, the final three coming on a shot that beat the buzzer but not the Spurs. Still, it's a good sign moving forward that Harden found his jump shot late. Westbrook, who finished with 17 points on 7-for-21 shooting, never did. Perhaps he needed actual glasses for once. Oklahoma City needs one of its two playmakers to step up. Derek Fisher's not going to score 13 points on 6-for-8 shooting every game.

Offensive efficiency pairs well with nasty. The Spurs committed 15 turnovers in the first three quarters, then one in the fourth. And they made 12 of 16 field goals and 13 of 18 free throws in the period. San Antonio has proven spurtability. But they seem capable of turning on a hot streak whenever necessary, as they did Sunday and in Game 3 of their series against the Los Angeles Clippers. In that game, they used a 24-0 run in the third quarter to take command. This is how a team can win 19 consecutive games. There's no way to claim every quarter, so the Spurs use unmatchable runs when necessary.

The player to watch in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals (Monday, 8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN) is Mickael Pietrus. The Boston Celtics backup will be tasked regularly with guarding Miami Heat superstars Dwyane Wade and LeBron James. With Paul Pierce and Ray Allen limping and Avery Bradley sidelined, Pietrus is the only player who can even approach the size, strength and quickness of the Heat stars. Pietrus had a few shining moments in Game 7 against the Philadelphia 76ers on Saturday, and he'll need to find the ability that had him labeled Air France in his younger days.