NBA playoffs: Wizards could learn much from Celtics, Heat, Thunder and Spurs

We know the Washington Wizards need franchise-saving help. When a team has missed the playoffs 19 times in the past 24 seasons, that¡¦s not merely a rough stretch ¡X it¡¦s systemic failure.

Fortunately for Wizards management, successful roster-building blueprints are available to them. All they have to do is turn on the television.



The Wizards could (should?) learn a lot from the NBA¡¦s final four ¡X the Boston Celtics, Miami Heat, Oklahoma City Thunder and San Antonio Spurs ¡X who each took different paths to elite-team status but share a common trait: championship-minded organizational cultures. For those franchises, winning isn¡¦t some sort of theoretical pursuit; it¡¦s their around-the-clock purpose.

Physically gifted, smart players provide the granite-strong foundations of the Celtics, Heat, Thunder and Spurs. But it¡¦s also the superstars¡¦ roll-up-their-sleeves-and-work determination that has elevated those teams to prize-claiming contention. That¡¦s where the Wizards have historically been most lacking: picking the right people around whom to build.

They¡¦ve squandered millions on players (Gilbert Arenas and Andray Blatche top the list recently) who were more interested in tomfoolery than titles. It¡¦s about evaluating a person¡¦s entire makeup ¡X not just his ability from three-point range. The Wizards have done that as poorly as the Redskins follow the NFL¡¦s salary cap instructions.

¡§It¡¦s a process,¡¨ Wizards President Ernie Grunfeld said Friday in a phone interview. ¡§But [having good] leadership is very important.¡¨

Grunfeld just completed his ninth season in charge. He received a contract extension in April (the Wizards posted their fourth consecutive sub-.318 winning percentage under him), and we¡¦ll soon learn whether owner Ted Leonsis is delusional or a visionary regarding Grunfeld: next season, the team¡¦s fourth in its most recent rebuild, the Wizards should show significant progress.

Grunfeld and Leonsis are convinced that the team will succeed by following the same draft-centric model popularized by the fast-rising Thunder. Under rock-star General Manager Sam Presti, the Thunder hit high-pick grand slams: forward Kevin Durant and guards Russell Westbrook and James Harden are incredible individually and even better collectively. Forward Serge Ibaka, the league¡¦s leading shot blocker, was a late-first-round gem.

Presti stockpiled picks while also putting the Thunder¡¦s financial house in order. With the cap flexibility he created (the extension Westbrook signed in January still leaves room for the team to offer Harden and Ibaka long-term contracts without entering luxury-tax territory), Presti engineered roster-improving trades: acquiring bruising center Kendrick Perkins from the Celtics completed the team¡¦s starting lineup.

The Thunder¡¦s scouting success, however, is only part of why its story is such a page-turner. Here¡¦s the rest: Presti and his staff correctly identified high-ceiling players who also had the hearts and minds of winners.

Durant and Westbrook are all-NBA players who practice as hard as guys on 10-day contracts. Even when the Thunder is off, they¡¦re usually the first in the gym and the last to leave.
