Thunder aren't taking moral victories back to Oklahoma City, only missed opportunity

SAN ANTONIO -- It would seem that there's something to build on for the Thunder. Something to take with them north to Oklahoma City. Something to feel good about moving forward.

It would seem that way. But it's not. The only thing they're taking is an 0-2 hole. Against the best team in basketball, no less.

The Thunder's frantic, furious comeback that cut a 22-point lead to six is a better result than letting 22 turn into 32. But OKC came to San Antonio looking for two wins and instead found a mountain to climb.

"We lost," said Kevin Durant. "There are no moral victories for us."

Said Russell Westbrook: "Yeah, same thing Kevin said. We're not here to try to make it a close game or try to make it a good fight. We're trying to win. We lost tonight."

The Spurs essentially buried the Thunder in a ditch that they couldn't find a way out of. A 10-2 start turned into a 13-point second quarter lead. An 11-point halftime lead doubled to 22 in the third. And while OKC valiantly fought back, coming up short only means they have to win four out of five now.

"If you don't know us by now, we've been a resilient group that bounces back,¡¨ Durant said. ¡§Tough to go down 0-2. We didn't come in here thinking that, okay, they're supposed to get these two at home. We wanted to come in here and win. We didn't do that.¡¨

Things tend to haunt you when you come up on the short end of a playoff loss. Game 1, it was the blown nine-point lead. Game 2, it might be five minutes in the second quarter.

As the Spurs started to build a second quarter double-digit lead on the Thunder, Durant and Westbrook were forced to watch. Scott Brooks chose to stick to his rotational guns and go with the bench.

Brooks' stubbornness often pays off. He's a coach that likes stability and consistency, and he handles playing time much in that way. He trusts his players to execute and do their job and with one of the league's better benches, he saw no reason for them to not do their job there.

Except this is the playoffs and there's just not a ton of room for error. In Game 1, Brooks was left answering questions about why he sat Serge Ibaka in the fourth quarter. This time around, it was two choices that are left to be picked apart: Sitting Westbrook and Durant the first five minutes of the second quarter as the Spurs started rolling and playing Derek Fisher the entire fourth as stopper Thabo Sefolosha sat.

These are the things that happen when you lose playoff games. You let people like me sit here and second guess. It's the way it works, but this is now two moves that have left some scratching their heads as the Thunder let games slip away.

The Thunder started slow and only dug a deeper hole in the second quarter. And it left them battling uphill for the next 24 minutes. Once they started getting desperate and frantic they had enough in the tank to give themselves a shot, but these Spurs don't relinquish leads. Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili eventually snuffed out the Thunder push.

Brooks admitted to kind of second-guessing himself after Game 1. I'm sure he'll do a little of the same after Game 2.

"We need to play better," Brooks said. "That's one of the things. Our guys aren't in to close games. We're about winning basketball games. We're not a team that's worried about getting better. We feel like we're good enough to win on anybody's floor, and we didn't do that the last two games.

"Nothing to cry about," he continued. "They beat us fair and square. Now we have the opportunity to take care of Game 3. We do that and we're back in business."

Brooks and his Thunder certainly deserve credit for not giving in. Lesser teams would've watched the Spurs relentlessly bury 3-pointers and tough shots and folded. The Thunder met the challenge and battled back. It's certainly something that they can feel mildly better about, but still, it doesn't make the task ahead any easier.

The Thunder leave San Antonio looking at missed opportunities. Game 1 presented a beatable Spurs team. Game 2 brought out the monster than seems invincible. You live to regret moments unless you're the one hoisting the trophy at the end, and the Thunder will likely find quite a few to grit their teeth over if they can't put wins together back in OKC.

The Thunder had enough fortitude to push back in Game 2 when all looked lost. And they might have it in them to do the same when the series heads to Oklahoma City. But a comeback isn't complete until you win. And the Thunder might've already missed that chance. 