3-on-3: Veteran Spurs confront young Thunder

SAN ANTONIO (USA TODAY) ¡X James Harden, at 22 the youngest of the Oklahoma City Thunder's three main contributors, looks to San Antonio Spurs sixth man Manu Ginobili as personal competition in the Thunder's quest for an NBA Finals berth.

Meanwhile, Ginobili ¡X the 34-year-old bench hero of a Game 1 Western Conference finals victory ¡X views Harden as another member of the Thunder, potentially the 20th playoff team dispatched by San Antonio's "Big 3" in the 10 seasons Tim Duncan, Tony Parker and Ginobili have been on the same roster.

The battle between the championship-seasoned Spurs trio, each of whom is over 30, and the Thunder's youthful bunch of Harden, Russell Westbrook, 23, and Kevin Durant, 23, figures to be one of the keys to this series.

"We know what they've done," Durant says of the Spurs. "We respect what they've done. They've built a dynasty."

The Spurs' trio is four seasons removed from a stretch of three NBA titles in five years, yet they have been playing their best basketball amid a 19-game winning streak. They have no desire to pass the torch to the Thunder's trio, described by Ginobili as more athletically gifted than his group ever was.

"They are just amazing, all three," Ginobili says. "Their strength, their speed, and they can all shoot, too. We were just a different kind of players. They have a bright, bright future ahead of them.

"Hopefully we can keep that in the future, not the present."

Both trios have been integral to playoff success. The Spurs are 76-37 in the playoffs when their Big 3 play at least 24 minutes and 9-14 when they don't. The Thunder are 19-8 in the playoffs when their Big 3 each play 24-plus, and 0-5 otherwise.

Durant, Westbrook and Harden desperately want a victory in Game 2 today (9 p.m. ET, TNT) before the series swings to Oklahoma City, where an aspiring dynasty has been fashioned in the Spurs' image.

Shared attributes

The teams share rosters made up of homegrown draftees, international imports and reluctant stars. That's no coincidence, considering the man who helped the former Seattle SuperSonics build an identity in Oklahoma is the man who rose from video intern to assistant general manager with the Spurs.

Sam Presti brought a tight-knit, family-first dynamic to the franchise as general manager beginning in 2007. He was hired days before choosing Durant with the draft's No. 2 selection. The team won 20 games in 2007-08, its final season in Seattle, but two seasons later earned the franchise's first playoff berth since 2005.

Presti says the Thunder have their own identity but adds, "We're always going to look to try to pull from organizations such as the Spurs."

Former NBA head coach Jeff Van Gundy says the Spurs and Thunder, especially with the respective Big 3s, have some unique shared attributes.

"Their intangibles are very similar," he says. "Different personalities, but they value the team, they value hard work, they value winning, which all seems like that would be everybody, but it's certainly not."

Spurs general manager R.C. Buford, who works in tandem with coach Gregg Popovich on personnel decisions in San Antonio, sees some similarities between Duncan, the Spurs' aging centerpiece, and Durant, Oklahoma City's three-time reigning NBA scoring champ.

"The togetherness that they play with as a team," Buford says. "The style of leadership of Kevin Durant and Tim Duncan seem to be similar."

Like Duncan, Durant makes no headlines with his words or off-court behavior. Unlike Duncan, Durant (6-9, 235) is one of the game's most dynamic scorers. Duncan (6-11, 255) is a classic post player who has made up for declining athleticism at 36 with superior decision-making.

Despite the contrast of styles, Thunder coach Scott Brooks understands the comparison between the Big 3s. He says the Spurs' trio will go down as "one of the best ever," and his own trio has ample room to grow.

"James, Kevin and Russell, they're incredibly talented players that work hard," Brooks says. "They understand team concepts very well. There's no question that that's a big part of our success, because they do that.

"There's no question there's times they don't do that."

A 'crafty' veteran

Team concepts have been the hallmark of the Spurs' performances in these playoffs. In Sunday's Game 1, Ginobili, Parker and Duncan shook off first-half rust, rallying to a 101-98 victory.

Ginobili had not played against the Thunder this season after breaking his hand early in the season. He occasionally matched up with Harden, his fellow sixth man of the year award winner. "He's crafty," Harden says of Ginobili. "He plays the pick-and-roll. He can pass the ball. They have a lot of bench players who can score, but obviously the main player off the bench is Ginobili."

Harden, Westbrook and Durant struggled in the loss, shooting 22-for-57. Yet Popovich heaped praise on the rising stars Monday.

"These guys are the best players in the world at this level," he said of Durant, Westbrook and Harden. "And they're going to score no matter what the defense is, so you've just got to do the best job you can. But there's no stopping those guys. You just try to ¡K make them work hard and try to limit them in certain situations."

Westbrook's matchup with Parker has been viewed as a key to the series. Parker, 30, came alive in the fourth quarter of Game 1, finishing with 18 points to Westbrook's 17 (7-for-21 from the field).

Westbrook looked intent on not allowing Parker to repeat his 42-point performance in a February loss, and last week told news reporters that Parker's big night still eats at him "a little bit."

Westbrook and Parker are slashing guards and creative passers. Parker returned to the NBA All-Star Game after a one-year hiatus. He averaged a career-high 7.7 assists and added 18.3 points a game, his most since the 2008-09 season. Westbrook averaged a career-best 23.6 points with 5.5 assists.

"He's one of the main reasons why we are where we are," veteran Derek Fisher says. "We need Russell to be Russell. We don't need him to change and try and be someone else. He'll have the type of game that he wants to have and we need him to have."

Popovich says his Big 3's selfless and evolving understanding of their roles has carried the Spurs success, as Duncan earned the spotlight, then was willing to share it.

"I'm very fortunate in that I didn't have to deal with a star ego. I dealt with grownups who had character and prioritization in their lives already set," Popovich said.

"I never had a talk, I never had a discussion, a meeting or anything with any of those guys about that. It was because of their character that we were able to do it."