Down by 2-0, Thunder Grab for Lifeline

SAN ANTONIO ¡X Intentionally fouling a 6-foot-11 backup center five times in a 54-second span of the third quarter might sound like the final desperate act of a team on the brink of elimination. 

But this was only Game 2 of the Western Conference finals on Tuesday. As the San Antonio Spurs schooled the Oklahoma City Thunder in the art of balanced scoring and ball movement, skipping passes through the Thunder¡¦s defense like stones across a pond, Coach Scott Brooks reached for the panic button.

Tiago Splitter was a 69 percent free-throw shooter during the regular season, hardly a scofflaw targeted by the scouting report for late-game fouls. But Splitter had shot only 37 percent in the playoffs, and as the Thunder tried to mount a rally from 22 points down, Splitter, the Brazilian backup to Tim Duncan, was fouled away from the ball.

¡§If we have the opportunity to do it again, we will,¡¨ Brooks said.

The strategy did little to squelch the Spurs, netting a 2-point gain for the Thunder. The Spurs led by 83-66 when Splitter was first fouled by Kendrick Perkins with 2 minutes 32 seconds left in the third quarter. Splitter went on to make 5 of his 10 free-throw attempts, and after his last visit to the line with 1:38 to play, San Antonio was ahead, 88-77.

But Brooks¡¦s move spoke to the Thunder¡¦s frustration in finding ways to slow the Spurs.

San Antonio¡¦s 120-111 victory was its 20th in a row, tied for the third-longest winning streak in N.B.A. history. A victory at Oklahoma City on Thursday night would put San Antonio at 11-0 in these playoffs, matching the 1989 and 2001 Los Angeles Lakers for the most consecutive victories to open the postseason.

¡§It changed the tempo a little bit,¡¨ Brooks said. ¡§They were fast tonight. That ball was just all over the floor with quick passes, passes that were right in their shooting pockets, and it kind of threw their rhythm out a little bit.¡¨

Brooks might have created an awkward tempo, but he also choreographed an odd piece of theater and helped get the capacity crowd of 18,581 at AT&T Center further into the game. Fans rose en masse and became louder after each foul on Splitter, rooting for him like the underdog hero in a movie. The Spurs seemed bemused by the stretch of Hack-a-Splitter. Coach Gregg Popovich appeared to hesitate in getting Splitter off the court, even seemingly stubborn about calling a timeout to do so.

Then again, Popovich has been a staunch proponent of intentionally fouling poor free-throw shooting centers, employing the Hack-a-Shaq strategy against Shaquille O¡¦Neal in the playoffs against the Los Angeles Lakers.

¡§I¡¦ve never done that before. I think it¡¦s a lousy thing to do. It¡¦s unsportsmanlike,¡¨ Popovich said with a grin, before shrugging off any controversy.

¡§If there¡¦s a reason to do it and they felt there was a reason to do it, it¡¦s a good move,¡¨ he said.

Splitter finished 6 of 12 on free throws, made his only field goal try and finished with 8 points. 