Thunder evaluate what went wrong in Game 2 loss

SAN ANTONIO -- The last time a team put up 120 points on the Oklahoma City Thunder in a game that ended in regulation, Dirk Nowitzki and the Dallas Mavericks took Game 1 of the 2011 Western Conference finals.

A week following a 121-112 victory, the Mavs eliminated the Thunder from the NBA playoffs, a prospect Oklahoma City revisits this week, down 2-0 after a 120-111 loss to the San Antonio Spurs.

Behind a 34-point performance from guard Tony Parker, San Antonio shot 55.1% from the field and scored more points in regulation vs. the Thunder than any team since those Mavs more than a year ago.

Said Thunder guard James Harden: "They are a very good passing team and a good three-point shooting team. When you have that combination, passing the ball and making shots, it's tough to guard."

Before the loss, Harden referred to Game 2 as a must-win, Game 7 scenario for his team. Here's what the Thunder say they have to improve on before Game 3 as the series resumes in Oklahoma City (Thursday, 9 p.m. ET, TNT).

Physicality

"We have to play more physical. They are just running freely, getting to whatever spot they want to get to." -- Thunder center Kendrick Perkins.

Versatility

"They spread you out. They put some tough decisions on the floor that you have to guard their bigs rolling, and you have to protect their 40% three-point shooters, and you've got to handle the ball and looks attack." -- Thunder coach Scott Brooks

Consistency

"We can't make mistakes. They're great at taking advantage of mistakes. We're doing a good job at times, but it can't be just at times. We have to do it just about all the time." -- Thunder guard Derek Fisher

Hustle plays

"Fish had two opportunities to take a charge and he got called for two blocks. He was there a little late, but those are the plays that we need to make." - Brooks

Strategy

"They definitely play together. They are definitely breaking down our defense passing the ball and using every player on their team. We just have to go back to film and try to make changes." -- Perkins

Perimeter defense

"Playing against the Spurs, you take away the paint and you give up something. They made 11 threes. They're a good team. That's what we have to figure out." -- Brooks

Pick and roll defense

"We also have to contain Tony Parker in the pick and roll. We have to do a better job on that starting with the bigs. He was knocking down his 15-footer coming off the screen" -- Perkins.

Free throws

"Then we have to make our free throws. We missed a couple down on the end." -- Brooks