Thunder hold on to topple Spurs and take 3-2 series lead

SAN ANTONIO (USA TODAY) ¡X With a pivotal road win, the Oklahoma City Thunder closed the chapter on a painful bit of history and took one big step toward the city's first NBA Finals berth.

San Antonio Spurs guard Manu Ginobili missed a three-pointer to tie the game, Kevin Durant hit two free throws and the Thunder won Game 5 of the Western Conference finals 108-103 Monday night. The Thunder have the four-time champion Spurs on the ropes with a 3-2 edge and a home game Wednesday that could lock up the franchise's first trip to the Finals in its current city. The franchise left Seattle in 2008.

James Harden, Russell Westbrook and Durant ¡X the Thunder's young centerpieces ¡X totaled 70 points, with Harden nailing a contested three-pointer with 28 seconds remaining to cut short a San Antonio run.

"The ball was supposed to go to Kevin, but the shot clock was running down. I had to make a play," Harden said of the three-pointer. "Kevin and Russell step up, the role players got to step up, too."

"We didn't break. We battled through that," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said of an 11-0 Spurs run that cut the lead to two points with 50.9 seconds left.

When an NBA playoff series is tied 2-2, the winner of Game 5 has gone on to win the series 83.5% of the time.

The Spurs had lost two in a row leading into Monday night, and coach Gregg Popovich played his wild card in the moments leading up to tip-off, starting sixth man Ginobili for the first time in these playoffs. It's a move Popovich has made before, the first time in 2005 against the Seattle SuperSonics, now the Thunder.

That night, Ginobili scored 39 with his team tied 2-2 in the second round of the playoffs, leading San Antonio to victory, and eventually, an NBA championship, their third. His performance Monday ¡X he finished with 34 points, six rebounds and seven assists ¡X mimicked that effort seven years ago, but the result did not.

"We wanted to ride him and see how far we could go," Spurs forward Stephen Jackson said.

Early foul trouble and collective ball mishandling handed the Spurs a 52-44 halftime deficit. Oklahoma City's bench outscored San Antonio's 25-13, and the Spurs committed 11 first-half turnovers to Oklahoma City's five. Tony Parker and Tim Duncan combined to shoot 3-for-12 from the field. Durant shot 1-for-6 in the half, but 25 bench points buoyed Oklahoma City.

"The way we started we should have probably been all taken out of the game," Thunder coach Scott Brooks said.

San Antonio endured early foul trouble to post players Duncan, Boris Diaw and DeJuan Blair but clawed back to take a brief third-quarter lead. A fourth-quarter run led by Ginobili and Parker brought the Spurs to within two in the fourth, but Harden's three in Kawhi Leonard's face helped secure the win.

This time last year, the Thunder were down 3-1 in the Western finals to the eventual champion Dallas Mavericks.

The last time San Antonio lost three games in a row was during the 2010-11 season, in which it dropped the final two games of the regular season and the first game of the playoffs. Before a Game 3 loss in Oklahoma City last week, the Spurs were riding a 20-game winning streak. They have not lost three in a row in the playoffs since being swept by the Phoenix Suns in 2010.

"They're a hell of a basketball team," Popovich said of the Thunder. "These guys are hard to guard, talented, hungry, athletic. The bottom line is you can't turn it over 21 times for 28 points against a team like that. They're too good."