Thunder on the verge of eliminating Spurs

SAN ANTONIO ¡X Time after time, Oklahoma City took the San Antonio Spurs¡¦ best shot.

When Game 5 of the Western Conference finals was finally over, the Thunder was still standing, poised on the brink of the NBA Finals after holding off a furious rally to win 108-103 Monday at the AT&T Center.

¡§We stuck together,¡¨ Oklahoma City coach Scott Brooks said. ¡§We had a couple of bad stretches, but we didn¡¦t break. We battled through that. They¡¦re a terrific team. They¡¦re not going to just give you the game, but we stayed together. Everybody did their job to get this win tonight.¡¨

Oklahoma City leads the best-of-seven series 3-2. Game 6 is Wednesday in Oklahoma City, where the Thunder is unbeaten in the playoffs. The Spurs have lost three straight for the first time this year after ripping off 20 consecutive victories.

¡§Championship teams win on the road, and Oklahoma City just did that,¡¨ Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. ¡§They¡¦ve proven they¡¦re a championship-caliber team. If we can¡¦t win on Wednesday, we¡¦re not a championship-caliber team, it¡¦s as simple as that.¡¨

The Thunder led by 13 with five minutes left, then by five with 28.8 seconds remaining. The Spurs still had a shot at the tie when Manu Ginobili missed a rushed 3-pointer in the dying seconds following the Thunder¡¦s fourth turnover down the stretch.

¡§I didn¡¦t have options,¡¨ said Ginobili, who led all scorers with a season-high 34 points. ¡§It wasn¡¦t a great shot, but it wasn¡¦t a bad one either. It just didn¡¦t go in.¡¨

Oklahoma City All-Star Kevin Durant scored 22 of his 27 points in the second half. Russell Westbrook added 23 and James Harden finished with 20, including a step-back 3-pointer that gave the Thunder a 106-101 lead in the final minute.

¡§We can¡¦t get too high off this win,¡¨ said Durant, who dedicated the victory to his ailing uncle. ¡§We can¡¦t rely too much on our home crowd. This team is not going to (quit), so we have to come out with a lot of fire, a lot of effort, to beat them.¡¨

Tim Duncan had 18 points and 12 rebounds for the Spurs, who also got 20 points from Tony Parker and 13 from Stephen Jackson.

The first quarter resembled a lunchtime pickup game, with both teams committing sloppy turnovers and missing wide-open shots. Oklahoma City was especially bad, bricking its first seven shots as power forward Serge Ibaka picked up two fouls in the opening minute.

But the Thunder battled back, closing the first quarter on an 18-6 run to lead 26-21. Taking advantage of eight points from little-used reserve Daequan Cook, Oklahoma City pushed ahead by as many as 14 in the second quarter before the Spurs climbed back within 52-44 at halftime.

Oklahoma City led despite a quiet first half from Durant (five points, 1-for-6 shooting).

The Spurs picked up where they left off in the third, outscoring Oklahoma City 18-4 to retake the lead, 60-56. Ginobili sank consecutive 3-pointers during the run en route to 13 points in the period.

The Thunder not only withstood the barrage but responded in kind. Westbrook scored 11 in the period, and Durant had 13, including a contorting jump shot at the buzzer that gave Oklahoma City an 81-72 advantage.

Unlike Game 1, in which it blew a nine-point lead it held entering the final quarter, the Thunder held firm even as San Antonio sliced what had been a 13-point deficit down to two in the final minute.

That¡¦s when Harden, with the shot clock winding down, stepped back for a 3-pointer over Kawhi Leonard to put Oklahoma City up 106-101 with 28.8 seconds left.

¡§The play was for Kevin, and the shot clock was going down,¡¨ Harden said. ¡§I just went back to my mechanics and shot the ball with confidence, and it went in.¡¨

The Thunder turned the ball over after a Giniboli layup, giving San Antonio a shot at the tying basket. But Ginobili misfired on a contested 3-pointer between two defenders, leaving the Spurs one loss away from elimination.