2012 NBA playoffs: Heat outlasts Celtics in overtime, 115-111 in Game 2 of Eastern Conference finals

MIAMI ¡X The Miami Heat has relied on the same plot line for nearly two weeks. Trouble arrives, and LeBron James and Dwyane Wade get out their capes and soar to the rescue. As Miami lost a fourth-quarter lead Wednesday and landed in overtime, that routine seemed to have run its course. For more than a quarter, there had been precious little soaring and no resuscitation in sight. The Heat went mostly quiet and cold.

But then there was a rescue. It was set up by the Heat¡¦s hustling Udonis Haslem, who scored four crucial points in overtime and then let Wade step in to finish off the drama with a touch of beauty.



Wade slipped around a screen set by James, went up against Kevin Garnett, and dropped in a running layup with 59.7 seconds left to all but end the Boston Celtics¡¦ hopes in the 115-111 overtime victory for Miami in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals at American Airlines Arena.

Wade, who scored only two points in the first half but finished with 23, got the foul, nailed the free throw and gave Miami a five-point lead that it wouldn¡¦t relinquish as it took a 2-0 lead in the series.

¡§You just can¡¦t be any other way with this team,¡¨ Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said. ¡§It has to be the hard way.¡¨

Wade added three more free throws as the Celtics fouled and Rajon Rondo, who scored a game-high 44 points with eight rebounds and 10 assists, hit a fadeaway three-point shot in the waning seconds.

¡§It was grueling,¡¨ Wade said. ¡§We put a lot of effort into coming back. .?.?. I¡¦ve been trying to be patient. I¡¦m reading throughout the game. Right now I think I¡¦m playing, making the right adjustments for my team to win. That¡¦s what¡¦s important.¡¨

A game that surged from fast-paced and exciting to slow-paced, free-throw dominated and stultifying, came down to big shots by players you don¡¦t hear much about. Wade helped Miami overcome a 15-point deficit in the third quarter but Shane Battier and Haslem nailed big shots late in the fourth quarter. Battier hit a three-pointer and Haslem a jumper under pressure.

The Heat needed all of that as Ray Allen, who has been hobbled by a right ankle problem hit an open three-point shot with 34.3 seconds left to send the game into overtime.

¡§We have the guys capable to win games,¡¨ Allen said. ¡§We just have to make sure we execute down the stretch. .?.?. They ended up making plays down the stretch.¡¨

Actually, the Heat fumbled opportunities, too. Miami had two chances to win the game in regulation, but James missed twice in the waning seconds. On a feed from Wade off a pick-and-roll, he misfired in traffic. Miami got the rebound, reset its offense and James missed again from 22 feet with 1.9 seconds remaining to keep the score tied.

James scored 34 points, shooting 7 for 20 from the field and 18 for 24 from the line. Held scoreless for most of the first half, Wade scored 12 during a comeback third quarter for Miami. Point guard Mario Chalmers emerged as an unlikely hero and steady player, leading the Heat in scoring in the first half and finishing with 22.
