Spurs' struggles vs. Thunder reminiscent of 2004 swoon vs. Lakers

Just last week, self-styled NBA historians were in the process of assigning San Antonio a ranking among the league's all-time great teams, an exercise born of the Spurs' 20-game winning streak and the assumption that they would soon become the league's champion. But after going up 2-0 over Oklahoma City in the Western Conference finals, the Spurs have been re-enacting, to a degree, a painful time in their own recent history.

They now have lost three straight, just as they did after going up 2-0 over the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2004 Western Conference semifinals. One more loss ¡X either tonight's Game 6 in Oklahoma City or, if played, Friday's Game 7 in San Antonio ¡X and the Spurs' window to a fifth NBA title comes closer to closing for a team with an aging core of stars in Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili and Tony Parker.

The 2004 Lakers finished off the Spurs in Game 6 in Los Angeles. The Thunder can accomplish that tonight.

There are some similarities between the series in 2004 and this year's:

On Monday, the Spurs had a chance to take a 3-2 series lead until the left-handed James Harden hit an incredible three-point shot while closely guarded by Kawhi Leonard. The shot with 28.8 seconds left gave the Thunder a five-point lead.

In 2004, Derek Fisher, also a lefty, beat the Spurs 74-73 in Game 5 in San Antonio with a two-point jump shot that he launched with 0.4 seconds remaining. Fisher, now with the Thunder, still gets booed in San Antonio.

In 2004, Lakers coach Phil Jackson altered his defense after Parker scored 30 points in Game 2, preventing the Spurs' point guard from driving into the lane the rest of the series. Parker converted just 14 of 71 shots (31 percent) in the last four games.

This year, Thunder coach Scott Brooks also adjusted after Parker's 34-point performance ¡X on 16-of-21 shooting ¡X in Game 2, when Russell Westbrook was his primary defender. Brooks moved 6-7 Thabo Sefolosha to guard the 6-2 Parker.

Brooks also elected to have Thunder defenders often switch the player they are guarding when the Spurs set screens for the driving Parker and Ginobili, a strategy that can prevent paths to the basket from opening if the defensive team is long, athletic and diligent enough.

Oklahoma City is obviously capable. Since that 16-for-21 night in Game 2, Parker has hit 16 of 41 (39 percent). The Spurs, who averaged 13.5 turnovers this season ¡X third-fewest in the NBA ¡X committed 21 in Game 3 and 5 losses against the Thunder.

"The game plan they had starting Game 3 gave them a lot of confidence," Spurs forward Stephen Jackson said. "I don't think it's rattled us too much, but it's been effective."

But Ginobili does not believe the series has turned on strategy.

"Not many times when two great teams play against each other, X's and O's is what makes a difference," Ginobili said.

Regardless, Oklahoma City produced 28 points from the 21 turnovers Monday, an exceptional conversion rate.

Spurs coach Gregg Popovich tried his own adjustment Monday. Ginobili, starting for the first time in the 2012 playoffs, scored a season-high 34 points. Parker and Duncan scored 20 and 18, respectively.

But Danny Green, Matt Bonner, Boris Diaw, Gary Neal and Tiago Splitter ¡X part of a supporting cast so instrumental during the 20-game winning streak ¡X have often wilted against Oklahoma City. Meanwhile, Oklahoma City stars Kevin Durant, Harden and Westbrook have received critical support from the likes of Serge Ibaka (11-for-11 shooting in Game 4) and Daequan Cook (eight points in four minutes Monday).

So now the Spurs have to win one in Oklahoma City, in front of the NBA's most raucous crowd, something they could not accomplish in Game 6 eight years ago in Los Angeles.