Coach Gregg Popovich recognizes how talented the Oklahoma City Thunder are, how three-time scoring champion Kevin Durant can go on a run at any time, as he has in leading his team to the brink of winning the Western Conference finals and getting to the NBA Finals for the first time.

：They・re always gonna have that weapon. Nobody else has that kind of weapon,； Popovich says. ：Well I don・t care about anybody else. We don・t.；

But with his team needing to win at Oklahoma City on Thursday, what has Popovich concerned is the turnovers his team has committed in the three consecutive losses that have turned around this series.

：They don・t need our help,； Popovich said Tuesday. ：It・s enough to make you kick yourself.

：It・s frustrating and maddening more than anything, because we・ve played so poorly as far as handling the basketball. (The Thunder) deserve a lot of the credit for that. But it・s also uncharacteristic of our guys.；

The Spurs averaged 13.6 turnovers during the regular season, third-fewest in the NBA and maintained exactly that average through the first 10 games of the playoffs. Then Oklahoma City ended the Spurs・ 20-game winning streak in Game 3, and the Spurs have averaged 17.3 turnovers since.

Popovich chalked it up to poor decision-making and late passes, not fatigue, even as he calls on his veteran trio of Manu Ginobili, Tony Parker and Tim Duncan for extended minutes in these critical games.

：The Thunder were just better overall,； Popovich said. ：That・s the bottom line.；

Popovich said the roles have been reversed in more than just the stat line or the win-loss column. Oklahoma City is making the extra passes it failed to do in Games 1 and 2. And San Antonio has somehow forgotten how to do the same.

：The first two games, Oklahoma City didn・t do a very good job of hitting the open man. They were pretty hellbent for leather,； he said. ：Didn・t really play with all the pieces and we took those games.

：And it・s sort of reversed when I look at the film now. Too many people trying to do it on their own, out of good intent, but it leads to contested shots, turnovers. You now see Oklahoma City playing like we did in the first two games.；

And what a transformation it・s been for the team that finished last in the NBA in assists during the regular season. Oklahoma City is playing in the San Antonio mold, with some high-flying dunks and breath-taking fast breaks sprinkled in.

San Antonio has one more opportunity to turn the tables, and Popovich promises the Spurs will be prepared.

：The confidence level stays high,； he said. ：We・re one of four teams (making the conference finals) out of 30. We・re here for a reason, and I・ll be on them, and I・m sure they・ll come out ready to go.；

