Thunder bandwagon: Ex-Sooner Danielle Robinson at game; Thunder gear scarce in San Antonio

Read more: http://newsok.com/thunder-bandwagon-ex-sooner-danielle-robinson-at-game-thunder-gear-scarce-in-san-antonio/article/3681624#ixzz1y7roznJA


Former Oklahoma All-American Danielle Robinson has attended every game at the AT&T Center so far between the Thunder and Spurs.

Read more: http://newsok.com/thunder-bandwagon-ex-sooner-danielle-robinson-at-game-thunder-gear-scarce-in-san-antonio/article/3681624#ixzz1y7ry8Tba



Robinson plays in the same facility for the WNBA San Antonio Silver Stars. Through the first five games this season, she is averaging 9.2 points, 4.0 assists and shooting 57.1 percent from the field.

¡§I¡¦m not required to root for anyone,¡¨ said a smiling Robinson. ¡§I only went to a handful of Thunder games when I was there, but I enjoy watching them play. The atmosphere there is awesome with how they do the shirts and everything. I became a fan of theirs, but since I¡¦m here in San Antonio, I think that¡¦s who I¡¦ll have to go with right now.¡¨

Robinson double-dips in pro ball and played in Israel last season when the WNBA was not in session.
WHERE THUNDER GEAR IS SCARCE

When the Air Force sent Roger Engle and his wife Suzanne from Tinker Air Force Base to Lackland in San Antonio eight months ago, they didn¡¦t think to stock up on Thunder gear. But as the Western Conference Finals began, Suzanne found herself running around the Alamo City.

¡§I went to all the malls and big sports stores. I went to Wal-Mart,¡¨ Suzanne said. ¡§You¡¦d think they wouldn¡¦t have any allegiances. They¡¦re Wal-Mart.¡¨

Finally, she found a couple Thunder blue shirts, including a Kevin Durant No. 35 T-shirt for Roger, an air battle manager for AWACS 13 Bravo. They stood out in the AT&T Center for Game 2 because they ended up with tickets behind the winners of the Thunder Rewards Zone flyaway promotion ¡X ¡§We made the Thunder website, but I got so nervous I flashed the peace sign instead of No. 1,¡¨ Suzanne said.

Read more: http://newsok.com/thunder-bandwagon-ex-sooner-danielle-robinson-at-game-thunder-gear-scarce-in-san-antonio/article/3681624#ixzz1y7rzmq6x
