If the Oklahoma City Thunder go on to win the 2012 NBA Championship ¡X and right now they should be the favorite to do so ¡X there should definitely not be an asterisk attached to the accomplishment.

Yes, this was a strike-shortened season, but this year was nothing really like 1999 when some wanted to qualify the Spurs' title over the New York Knicks in a 50-game season.

In the first two rounds of the playoffs, the Thunder eliminated the teams that had won the last three championships ¡X Dallas in an opening-round sweep and the Lakers in five games.

And those aforementioned Spurs, they had only won 20 consecutive games through Game 2 of the Western Conference Finals.

The Spurs weren't just winning playoff games, they were destroying their opponents. But a 20-game win streak that had the team being compared to some of the best teams of recent eras has turned into a three-game losing streak, and San Antonio is on the brink of elimination after the Thunder's 108-103 win at the AT&T Center.

I don't think this is a case of San Antonio's failure but a case of the Spurs just running into a team that's playing better. The result is their first three-game losing streak of the year.

And Oklahoma City isn't doing everything right. The Thunder could still improve, despite this three-game win streak. They had too many untimely turnovers, some shake-your-head, one-man possessions, usually by the struggling Russell Westbrook, and Scott Brooks appears to get out-coached at times.

Oh, to have all those problems. Well, as long as they come with lots of talent.

The Thunder are so deadly in the open court. They can come out of nowhere to make amazing defensive plays. So they can make up for a mistake or two.

OKC has so many ways to win, starting with the obvious in Kevin Durant. But the inside game of Serge Ibaka and Kendrick Perkins helped turn the series around as well.

And when the going gets tough, the Thunder have James Harden to make a "horrible possession, great shot" dagger.

They've grown up very fast, but they aren't "step-skippers" as George Costanza would say. They lost two years ago in the first round to the Lakers. They dropped a tough five-gamer to Dallas in last year's Western Conference Finals, a series that would have gone seven if they could have held a 15-point lead in Game 4 at home.

The Thunder even looked vulnerable to start this year's playoffs. They caught some breaks to win the first two games against Dallas before asserting themselves on the road.

It appears they are learning lessons as they go as they closed effectively in each game of the Dallas sweep and in all but one game against the Lakers.

OKC had a chance to steal Game 1 in this series, but the cagey Spurs rallied in the fourth quarter.

But the Thunder didn't give up with an 0-2 deficit, and they didn't give in when the Spurs tried to mount a couple of second-half charges Monday night.

And if OKC doesn't give up its Loud City home court advantage Wednesday, then this youthful group will get a chance to win an NBA title. It'll likely be their toughest home game to date.

"I told the guys there's still some basketball in us, and we have time to get better in this series," Brooks said. "We played about as hard as we could play.

"They're a terrific team. We knew they'd make a run. We have to keep getting better each game."

If they get through it, you'd expect Miami to be there. But no playoff pressure has melted the Thunder thus far so they might be able to handle the Heat, too.

