Rondo's Game 2 performance one for the record books

MIAMI ¡V All heart, all guts, the embodiment of this version of the Boston Celtics, point guard Rajon Rondo produced a playoff game for the ages: 44 points, 10 assists and eight rebounds, playing all 53 minutes in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals against the Miami Heat.

The praise came from near and far.

"He was absolutely phenomenal," Boston coach Doc Rivers said.

    BLOG: Rondo on Game 2 missed call: I think it was obvious
    STORY: Heat hold on, take 2-0 series lead

"First of all, Rondo was absolutely amazing tonight," Heat forward LeBron James said. "The performance he put on tonight will go down in the record books. ¡K He showed tonight why he's an all-pro and one of the superstars in the league. He's a unique player. He's an unbelievable player."

"Rajon Rondo is the best PG in the league hands down, he does it all ppl," former teammate Jeff Green Tweeted.

"There was nothing you could do about it," Heat guard Dwyane Wade said. "He was out there every minute of the game. And he made a big impact."

"He's flat-out incredible. He does everything. I just love the guy. What an Ironman performance," teammate Keyon Dooling said.

"Rajon demonstrated last night why he is one of the greatest competitors the league has seen in a while. He truly has as much heart as anyone who has ever played the game in my opinion," his biased and proud agent, Bill Duffy, wrote in a text message to USA TODAY Sports late Wednesday night.

Rondo sat down at the dais postgame and was asked about his performance.

"It's irrelevant," Rondo said. "We lost. It's as simple as that."

That's right. The Celtics lost, 115-111, in overtime in Game 2, despite Rondo's brilliant performance.

In the past 26 NBA seasons, no point guard has had at least 40 points, 10 assists and eight rebounds in a playoff game. Not one. Not Magic Johnson. Not Steve Nash. Not Allen Iverson. Not Isiah Thomas. Not Tony Parker. Not Chris Paul. Not Russell Westbrook.

In the golden age of NBA point guards, Rondo shined like no other. He scored all 12 of Boston's points in overtime. He played with a purpose that was absent in Game 1 when he had nice-looking but ultimately empty stats. That was not the case Wednesday. He created for teammates and himself.

In the past five days, Miami Heat coach Erik Spoelstra has expressed his concern for Rondo with Spoelstra-isms.

"His greatness is his unpredictability," Spoelstra has said multiple times since Saturday.

His insistence on using that phrase become comical and even more so when Spoelstra called Rondo a "basketball maestro."

But Spoelstra knew, after watching hours of video on the Celtics, exactly what he was saying. Spoelstra said Tuesday the Heat needed to match Rondo's unpredictability with unpredictability. That meant putting different defenders on him - James, Wade, Mario Chalmers - for different looks. Keep him out of his comfort zone. Make him think a little bit more than he normally does.

It didn't matter. "We tried almost everything with him," Spoelstra said.

Not known as a reliable jump shooter, the Heat, as other teams have done, made a conscious decision to play off Rondo and let him take jump shots. That's the book on Rondo. During the regular season, he made just 39.3% of his shots outside of the paint, but inside the three-point line - the so-called mid-range jump shot area.

Rondo burned Miami. He made 16-of-24 shots, including 9-of-11 mid-range jumpers and 2-of-2 three-pointers. Even with the Heat playing off Rondo, he still finagled his way to the rim for easy shots.

One of those easy shots turned out to be a controversial play in overtime. Rondo drove the basket and missed a shot with the score tied at 115-115 and 1:50 left in overtime. Wade hit Rondo in the face but no foul was called. Miami went the other way, scored and took the lead for good.

Rivers was asked about the no-call. He didn't want to get a fine. He pointed out James shot 24 free throws and the Celtics shot 29.

"I tell my guys it doesn't matter. We can't get distracted," Rivers said. "We will not get distracted in this series. I guarantee you right now they're distracted. But we have to get it out of us and move on."

Rondo knew he was fouled. "It was obvious," he said. "I can't comment about that play in particular."

Allen interjected: "We all thought he got hit. I'll say it, he did. But what can you do about it."

Rondo is mercurial with teammates, coaches and news reporters, and one reason his name always comes up in trade talks. But Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge knows better than to ship him.

Early in the 2010-2011 season, Rondo refused to leave the trainer's room in Boston to talk to a reporter. A few nights later in another city, Rondo offered insightful answers to his game.

"You always want to be ahead of the game but not too far ahead and make sure guys are on the same page with you," he said back then.

He admitted then he sometimes goes back and re-watches great passes he made. "I know it may sound crazy but I like watching myself pass the ball," Rondo said.

He is one of the most fascinating point guards to play the game. He makes incredible ball fakes. Sometimes he keeps the ball. Sometimes he passes it. But often times, the defense is fooled, leading to a wide-open shot.

It took him time to gain the trust of his teammates as rookie in 2006-2007 and second-year player in 2007-2008. He clashed with teammates and Rivers, a point guard in his playing days who admits he was extra tough on Rondo because he played the same position.

Now, Rivers loves Rondo's game.

"He's great," Rivers said during the Celtics-Sixers series in the Eastern Conference semifinals. "He's as smart of a player as I've ever been around. Sometimes, he's too smart. But when he's right, he's good. His IQ is unbelievable. We laugh a lot. Sometimes, I'll call play, and he's already called it.

"It's nice to have a guy who wants to think the game for the team. A lot of players think the game individually for themselves. What play can I run for me? He thinks, what play works for the team? That's really nice having a player on the floor doing that."

Rondo is often a contradiction - an orthodox and unorthodox point guard often at the same time.

Rondo isn't one of the Big Three, but Boston is just as much his team today than it is forward Paul Pierce's or guard Ray Allen's or center Kevin Garnett's.

"We feed off what he's doing now," Allen said.

Deflating and demoralizing losses, in the face of an unbelievable individual performance with unexpected victory so close, can crush a team. But probably not this team. The Celtics have played too many playoff games since 2007-2008. Too much pride. Boston might not win a game in this series, but it won't quit because of a loss.

Rivers said the Celtics will let this defeat go, eventually.

"You just do," he said. "It's basketball. Listen, we played terrific. I told them we played extremely hard. I thought we played with great heart, but I didn't think we played smart all the time. And there's things we can absolutely fix, and we'll do that. We'll be ready for Friday.

"You don't throw it away. You hold onto it for 24 hours, and then you move on. We've been really good at that. We have no choice in the matter."