All the Oklahoma City Thunder do is make shots

All things considered, it was an absolutely atrocious possession. James Harden dribbled and dribbled and dribbled, trying to put the ball in Kevin Durant¡¦s hands. Durant was being denied.

The Thunder had led by 13 points with just more than five minutes remaining. Game 5 of the Western Conference final looked done. But the Spurs scored 13 of the next 15 points ¡X an improbable, potentially ill-advised Russell Westbrook jumper was the exception ¡X and the Thunder needed to score, lest they give the Spurs a chance to tie or take the lead within the game¡¦s final 30 seconds.

So, Harden gave up on Plan A, and faced up to Spurs rookie Kawhi Leonard. The Spurs¡¦ best defender had his hand in Harden¡¦s face. Harden did not have much of a choice with the clock winding down. He fired a three-pointer. By any definition, this was an inept possession. Naturally, the ball was greeted by mesh. The Thunder won, can advance to the NBA Finals with a win on Wednesday night.

¡§Leonard was playing great defence on me,¡¨ Harden said after the game. ¡§I just shot it with confidence.¡¨

It was an extreme example, but that is the Thunder¡¦s nature. It is a strange dichotomy: The team is beloved in basketball circles for their youth, their precociousness and their talent. Yet the way that they play is decidedly out of style. The Spurs¡¦ European-influenced offence, predicated on the pick-and-roll and ball movement, reminiscent of the Steve Nash Suns, has been the darling of these playoffs. Durant, Harden and Russell Westbrook, the Thunder¡¦s three biggest weapons? They get the ball in isolation, face up their defenders, and go. Help is rare, and they pass only when the defence forces them, too.

This should not be viewed pejoratively. Durant is the league¡¦s best shot-maker; Westbrook is its most explosive guard; Harden is the next Manu Ginobili, with wonderful vision and an unorthodox style. It works, and it is beautiful because of that. It is just not en vogue.

