Is Rajon Rondo, the difference-maker, enough for Celtics?

BOSTON ¡V The Boston Celtics' Big Three has morphed into the Big One.

The tipping point came late Wednesday night, after Rajon Rondo had played all 53 minutes of the 115-111 overtime loss to the Miami Heat in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals.

After a 44-point, 10-assists, seven-rebound performance that ranks as one of the finest by a point guard in the postseason, Rondo said, "It's irrelevant. We lost. It's as simple as that."

In season after season of Rondo earning, losing and re-gaining the trust of coach Doc Rivers and the Big Three of forwards Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett and guard Ray Allen, it is obvious that not only do they have trust in Rondo, they have no choice but to have trust.

Rondo, 26, who previously had never played every minute of a game, has established himself as one of the premier players in the league.

Asked if Rondo's playoff success comes from the veterans, Allen said, "We feed off what he's doing now."

Still mercurial and enigmatic ¡X the reason Rondo always seems to land in Boston's trade discussions ¡X has he become important enough to carry the Celtics as they return home for Game 3 on Friday, trailing the Heat 2-0?

"With all due respect to Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen, Rondo has taken over as the real difference maker for the Boston Celtics," a team executive told USA TODAY Sports, requesting anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, who watched video of the game for at least four hours Thursday, has conjured a Spoelstra-ism for Rondo.

"His greatness is his unpredictability," Spoelstra has said no less than five times since he learned the Celtics were Miami's opponent in the Eastern Conference finals.

Spoelstra said the way to stifle Rondo's unpredictability is to match it with unpredictability. Put different defenders on Rondo and don't let him become too comfortable.

"He is an extended version of a head coach, which is rare for a player who's been in the league five, six years," injured teammate Jermaine O'Neal told USA TODAY Sports.

"He's definitely a floor general and definitely a guy you can just hand over the offense and let him run it."

The Heat gave Rondo the mid-range jumper in Game 2, and he burned them, making 11-of-13 shots outside the paint.

Spoelstra hasn't decided how he will defend him in Game 3.

"I'm trying to sit back and be objective about it," he said. "After a sensational performance by a great player, you have to take a step back. You have to watch the film a couple of times and try to look at it objectively.

"He's most dangerous when he's getting in the paint, getting to the rim and obviously getting other people involved. But you also don't want to give him free throw line warm-up jump shots. So it's the balance that we're going to try to have to figure out."

The jump shot that killed the Heat has been a work in progress. Rondo's career shooting percentage is 48.1%, misleading when it comes to his jump shot. So many of Rondo's makes ¡X 63.7% of his 1,955 made shots in his career ¡X are within five feet of the basket. And Rondo has made 58.4% of his attempts in that short distance (1,246-of-2,130).

His mid-range jump shot has improved, from 29% his rookie season to 39.3% this season.

It's not surprising that O'Neal, a veteran NBA forward-center, compares Rondo to another point guard who has a knack for points, assists and rebounds.

"The evolution of his jump shot reminds me of Jason Kidd," O'Neal said. "Jason Kidd wasn't a very good shooter and just worked on it. That's who I think about when it comes to being able to control the game, being able to get in there and get key rebounds and pass the ball.

"He's young, so it might be unfair to put him in a category with Jason Kidd and Steve Nash. But he's on the track of being that caliber of point guard based on what I know about him personally and professionally."

Kidd has 107 career triple-doubles and Rondo has 13, but Rondo also has nine more in the postseason, just two fewer than Kidd (11) and two more than Miami forward LeBron James (7).

O'Neal, who played with Boston for the past two years and had season-ending wrist surgery in March, said Rondo is able to alter his style.

"He's a very smart guy," O'Neal said. "The playoffs are all about adjustments. I'm sure he's fully prepared to change his game for the next game. He understands he has to play well. He understands he has to get guys in the right spot for baskets."

Spoelstra will continue to use James and guards Dwyane Wade and Mario Chalmers on Rondo, but not one of them exclusively.

"He deserves the respect of multiple things. He's that smart," Spoelstra said. "He'll figure it out. And if it's the same guy, the same coverage, he'll figure it out. They also have a handful of other Hall of Famers that we have to deal with, as well. And LeBron and Dwyane have to defend those guys."

After Game 2, no less than Hall of Fame point guard Magic Johnson, now an ESPN analyst, told his audience that Rondo's performance was the greatest in the playoffs he has seen by a guard.

No point guard in the past 26 seasons ¡X not Johnson, Isiah Thomas, Allen Iverson, Steve Nash, Chris Paul, Tony Parker or Russell Westbrook¡X has had at least 40 points, 10 assists and eight rebounds in a playoff game.

Sometimes, Rivers and his staff watch video and are amazed by something Rondo does that went unnoticed during the game.

Not Wednesday. They knew it as it unfolded right in from them. Everyone knew it.

"After the game you watch it and you're like, 'Wow, I knew he was good, not that good,'" Rivers said Thursday. "But that was pretty much in front of us. They gave him the elbow jumper, he took it. When they doubled, he drove to the rim. He didn't predetermine his game. He let his game come to him."

That's the kind of maturity in Rondo's game that has impressed the team executive.

"Without his scoring (Wednesday) night, Boston doesn't have a chance to win," he said. "He is a tough competitor who has figured out that he can be one of the best players at his position in the league."

O'Neal said much of Rondo's overall game stems from supreme confidence in his abilities.

"He's a player with a lot of confidence, that's first and foremost," O'Neal said. "His game is built on confidence and a lot of talent. If you lack talent, you can't excel and do the things you're supposed to do. He has a ton of confidence and sometimes people say he has too much confidence.

"On the other hand, he works hard. He's always shooting, always watching film, always working on his game. I'm not surprised, and guys around the Celtics aren't surprised, that he played the way he played and made the shots he made."