NBA Playoffs: How The West Might Be Won

Despite their recognizable advantages as a basketball team ¡X three A-list scorers, defensive depth, a coach who resembles one-half of a snappy lawyer duo ¡X the Oklahoma City Thunder looked cooked after getting wiped out of the first two games of the NBA Western Conference finals. Meanwhile, it felt like the San Antonio Spurs were just waiting to spring something out of their hefty bag of veteran¡¦s tricks after losing the next two games, and that normalcy would resume in Game 5 on Monday. But the Thunder¡¦s two home wins appear to have transformed them into the scariest of playoff squads: the contender who just figured out how much better they can be than everyone else.

¡§When historians document the eureka moment in the ascension of the Oklahoma City Thunder, they will not focus on the good fortune that turned out to be Kevin Durant. Nor will they cite the brilliant drafting of James Harden, Russell Westbrook and Serge Ibaka, or even the shrewd trades that brought in Kendrick Perkins and Thabo Sefolosha,¡¨ writes Sports Illustrated¡¦s Jan Hubbard. ¡§Personnel will obviously be important. But there is a moment when a team with tantalizing potential figures out what it takes to win at the highest level. There is a moment when a team with championship aspirations becomes a team that demonstrates it can win a title. For the Thunder, that moment was Monday night.¡¨

The final score of Game 5 was close ¡X 108-103 ¡X and the Spurs could¡¦ve tied it up on a tricky play that was nevertheless tailor-made for Manu Ginobili¡¦s brand of desperation ball. But the Thunder closed with authority even as San Antonio was making a final push. Harden, the bearded hero, scored 12 of the team¡¦s 27 fourth-quarter points and nailed an air-sucking stepback three with 28 seconds left in the game and precious few seconds on the shot clock. Durant, praised by Gregg Popovich before and after as maybe the best player in the world, clinched the game with a pair of free throws to finish with a well-won 27 points even after a quiet first half. ¡§Truth is, when a guy with this much length can dominate in one-on-one matchup anywhere on the floor,¡¨ writes ESPN¡¦s Kevin Arnovitz, ¡§it doesn¡¦t demand radical innovation to get the ball to him.¡¨

Popovich has already played his choicest rotational trump card to mixed effect ¡X and as the series heads back to Oklahoma City for a potentially final Game 6, it seems the only answer is ¡§execute better, and maybe distract Harden by reminding him about all the money he¡¦s going to make this summer.¡¨ While they¡¦ve gotten younger to deal with getting older, there¡¦s the immutable reality that Tim Duncan, the hub on which San Antonio¡¦s wheel turns, isn¡¦t long for this league. ¡§The Spurs aren¡¦t fighting only the Thunder in these West finals. They¡¦re fighting the clock. Their championship core doesn¡¦t have long together, two seasons at the most,¡¨ writes Yahoo¡¦s Johnny Ludden. ¡§If they go on to lose this series, they¡¦ll look back on Monday and wonder: Will they ever get another chance like this again? Healthy and whole, two victories from the NBA Finals?¡¨

It isn¡¦t easy being a referee in any sport. For one, teenagers are forever asking you to fetch the newest pair of Jordans. Your ability to call the game is rarely acknowledged, but your gaffes are universally derided as examples of irrefutable organizational corruption. That said, we¡¦re never aware of how much referees do until someone else does their job. On Monday, the NFL announced that it will begin hiring replacement officials after labor negotiations broke down with the NFL Referees Association. The officials will be plucked from smaller college conferences and the retirement ranks ¡X not from the BCS ¡X and trained as the new season approaches.

This isn¡¦t the first faceoff between the NFL and the NFLRA. Back in 2001, replacements were briefly used before the league eventually got what it wanted. ¡§Presumably, there will be some replacement officials willing to cross the picket line. (Will the players, after their own protracted labor battles?)¡¨ writes Deadspin¡¦s Barry Petchesky. ¡§But before it comes to that, there¡¦s another lesson to be learned from that 2001 lockout: the league will crush the union without a second thought, if they think they have the leverage.¡¨

According to The Awl¡¦s Rick Paulas, there have been 974 Major League Baseball players whose careers only lasted for one game, making them members of the Cup of Coffee club. Some of those careers were derailed due to injuries, some due to unforgivably poor first-game impressions. One player got beaned in the head during his only at-bat. Another was plucked out of literal obscurity ¡X he was found on a street corner and signed because the team was on strike. Aside from their Cup of Coffee status, the players Paulas was able to contact have another thing in common: a healthy perspective about how things turned out, plus an appreciation for their brief stint in the big leagues.

¡§The number fluctuates slightly throughout each season as new prospects get called up to fill in for injured veterans, or when roster size expands in September. (Last year, for example, Braves rookie Julio Teheran was a Cup of Coffee player for the eleven days between his MLB debut and a spot start.)¡¨ he writes. ¡§But staying on the list for an extended period of time is generally not a good sign. It¡¦s an ominous one, an indication that something¡¦s gone horribly wrong, that however long a person has worked to attain his dreams, all he was allowed was a brief glimpse before the curtain was yanked shut in front of him. The Cup of Coffee club is filled exclusively with people who do not want to be members.¡¨


As a Fix reader, you must enjoy sports. As a general Internet user, you must love dogs. Behold, the perfect intersection: The Journal¡¦s Ben Cohen talked to former heavyweight champion George Foreman about his fondness for canines and why they¡¦re so good as training companions. The lesson, among others: Never run with a Jack Russell terrier, as Manny Pacquiao does, and make sure your dog is always at your side. ¡§A dog cannot roam. You¡¦ve got to keep him in the house with you,¡¨ said the champ. ¡§You can¡¦t have a wild dog and expect days to go good.¡¨