Lopresti: Thunder, Durant take advanced course into Finals

OKLAHOMA CITY (USA TODAY) ¡X They are no longer the young team that could, but the young team that did, and certainly will. Tomorrow has arrived for the Oklahoma City Thunder, and so have the NBA Finals.

We have seen them grow up into something special these past weeks. We saw them reach another level of toughness and purpose Wednesday night, when nothing less would have done, finishing off the San Antonio Spurs, who worked so hard not to be finished.

The 107-99 win against a proud and resilient opponent could not have been a more fitting cause for a raucous coming-out party. Falling behind 18 points in the first half did not stop the Thunder. Nor did desperate savvy, and 54 points, from Tony Parker and Tim Duncan.

The Thunder could not be held back. Led by Kevin Durant's 34 points 

and 14 rebounds, they officially came of age. Chesapeake Energy Arena, and probably the state of Oklahoma at large, went up like a fireworks display.

The birth certificates don't add up here. No team this young is supposed to be this good - or is that the other way around? "We've never looked at our age,'' coach Scott Brooks was saying.

Would he mind if the rest of us did? Just the top four Oklahoma City scorers, please. Durant 23, Russell Westbrook 23, James Harden 22, Serge Ibaka 22.

Down the road in Norman, the Oklahoma Sooners have probably started offensive lines older than that.

But that cast of kids just turned San Antonio's 20-game winning streak into a four-game losing plunge.

"These guys are hard to guard, talented, hungry and athletic,'' San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich had said, from the brink of extinction.

Michael Jordan was 28 when he played in his first NBA Finals. The Thunder had a different timetable in mind. "We just never thought we were supposed to wait our turn,'' Durant said the other day. And they have waited for nobody this spring.

First, the sweep of the Dallas Mavericks. Ibaka was 9 years old when Dirk Nowitzki became a Mav.

Then, the summary ousting of the Los Angeles Lakers. Westbrook was 11 when Kobe Bryant played in his first NBA Finals.

Then, the gritfest over the Spurs. Durant was 10 when Duncan led San Antonio to its first title. Durant just possibly helped kill Duncan's last chance at a return to the Finals.

It was Popovich who in final defeat Wednesday noted the Thunder have just run through three teams who own 10 of the past 13 NBA titles. "It's almost like a Hollywood script for OKC,'' he said. "I think it's pretty cool for them.''

Maybe the Thunder can go on from here and meet the Boston Celtics. Harden was six when Ray Allen played in his first NBA game.

Game 6 was a marvelous chance for the Thunder show the world how far they have come. When it comes to survival, who should understand better than the Spurs, having been around forever? But they ran into a team that has learned so much. To watch San Antonio's weary demise, with 36 points in the second half, was among the saddest sights of the postseason. In the end, this was no series for old men.

But one team's exit is another's grand arrival. The Oklahoma City future is scary, but it had to have a beginning. Starting Wednesday, the Thunder are here to stay. They'll likely have even more glorious days. Probably none louder.