Four-Point Play: Durant, Thunder climb uphill to NBA Finals

Four key points in the aftermath of the Oklahoma City Thunder's 107-99 victory to win the Western Conference finals 4-2 against the San Antonio Spurs:

The old man hit the bank shot. Then the forward dropped a bounce pass into the paint for the waiting, open center.

The Thunder beat the Spurs and advanced to the NBA Finals the same way they dropped the Dallas Mavericks in the first round and Los Angeles Lakers in the second. They're masters of mimickery, these kids. And they've dropped the teams responsible for 13 consecutive championships in the process.

The Thunder had the unblockable forward flinging jump shots from all angles against Dirk Nowitzki and Dallas. They had the master of the big shot knock down a pair of game-winners against Kobe Bryant and Los Angeles. But Kevin Durant was going to need even more help against the Spurs, a team predicated on pinpoint passing and fundamental soundness.

MORE:  Mama's boy Durant carries Thunder to title

So Derek Fisher made a leaning jump shot off the backboard, and Durant found Kendrick Perkins for a two-handed dunk. The Thunder's final two field goals of the West finals were emphatic and apropos.

Oklahoma City took the long road to the NBA Finals, and it's not about to get any easier. They've topped three of the six teams responsible for championships since Michael Jordan retired the second time, and they'll face a fourth in the Finals. The Boston Celtics and Miami Heat may not be as pretty as the Spurs, but they're both formitable foes. (Aside: The Detroit Pistons are the other franchise to win a title since 1998. We're pretty confident the Thunder could take their current iteration.)

The Thunder boast three clear advantages on any team in their way: youth, length and athleticism. But those alone aren't enough to make the NBA Finals, and they won't be enough to win the NBA Finals. Oklahoma City cut its turnovers from 16.3 a game in the regular season to 12.2 vs. the Spurs. The Thunder's three-point shooting has taken off, from 35.8% during the season to 40.4% in the playoffs. They're passing better, too, averaging 21.2 assists a game, up from 18.5.

This is a team coming into its own. Since Durant and point guard Russell Westbrook came to Oklahoma City, success has been a matter of time. They're learning at every step, growing more dangerous with each dynasty they cripple.

Don't be surprised to see Westbrook use a pass fake for an easy layup or Durant and James Harden throw full-court passes in the Finals.

How Russell got his groove back: attack mode. Westbrook had been in a funk most of the series, but he took control quickly in Game 6. He scored six of the Thunder's first eight points, including that vicious dunk. Westbrook finished with 25 points, eight rebounds and five assists while shooting 9-for-17 and making his only three-point try. He played within his strengths better than he has all series, and none of his five turnovers came at crucial moments. Harden is the Thunder's best passer, so Westbrook played on the wings down the stretch. Westbrook's been accused of lacking self-awareness in the past, but he hit all the right buttons in Game 6. If he continues this play in the Finals, he'll be impossible to guard.

Tim Duncan shouldn't retire. TNT's Charles Barkley suggested the Spurs star hang it up after his outstanding performance because he hates to see stars fade. Of course, Barkley was about 40 pounds overweight when he finished his career with the Houston Rockets, chasing a title. Duncan has four rings and the right to retire whenever he wants. But he's shown these playoffs that he's still got a lot in the tank. Duncan had 25 points and 14 rebounds in Game 6 and was the best Spurs player throughout the West finals. Moreover, he says he feels better than he has in years. The Spurs' window is closing with Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili, but it's not closed. San Antonio needs to add another reliable big man and another reliable shooter (Danny Green's not cutting it), but they'll be back. And ask Serge Ibaka if Duncan's too old.

So, about that seldom-discussed other series ... Things aren't as bad as they might seem for the Heat. Chris Bosh should be more involved in his second game back, and Dwyane Wade and LeBron James can be expected to put everything on the table in Thursday's Game 6 (8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN) against the Celtics. Even if this year goes in the can, we don't expect coach Erik Spoelstra to be fired when James is making statements like, "He's our coach. I don't need to defend him. I'm here. We got a lot of respect for Spo."