OKC Thunder Success a Perfect Storm of Stars, Staff, and Community



I¡¦m no hoops expert, but it seems at the end of the day that the young legs of key stars, the shrewd strategic maneuvers of staff, and a boisterous home crowd all contributed to a startling turnaround in the 2012 NBA Western Conference Finals that pushed the Oklahoma City Thunder to 4 consecutive victories over the more experienced San Antonio Spurs to win the series 4 games to 2.

Which makes you realize that in the big picture, the success story that has become the OKC Thunder is really a perfect storm of 3 key ingredients.

(1) Star players playing like studs, (2) Coaching staff making key moves on the court and team executives making shrewd decisions behind the scenes, and (3) Devoted fans that support their pros with a collegiate-like enthusiasm.

Seemed apropos during the Thunder¡¦s post-game press conference that they acknowledged the greatness of the Spurs organization they had just beat, because in many ways the stories underlying the history of both franchises are eerily similar.

Both cities would be classified as mid-sized markets.  According to the Census Bureau¡¦s 2010 MSA estimates, San Antonio is 24th with 2.1 million people and OKC is 42nd with 1.3 million.

Both teams are the only pro sports team in their respective communities, and both have a nearby major university with a huge college athletics presence (Univ of Oklahoma in Norman and Univ of Texas in Austin).

Both teams were fortunate enough to have high draft picks AND wise enough to make the right selections.  Consider in the 1997 NBA Draft how history would be different for the Spurs if they had selected Keith Van Horn (the number 2 overall that year) rather than Tim Duncan.  Conversely, where would the Thunder be if the Portland Trailblazers selected Kevin Durant first in the 2007 NBA Draft rather than Greg Odom.  Thankfully, the Blazers left KD be¡Kallowing him to fall to the Thunder at #2.

Just as the Spurs carefully constructed their championship core years ago through both the draft and trades with pieces like Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili, and at times wily veterans like Steve Kerr and Robert Horry, the Thunder drafted Durant in 2007, Russell Westbrook and Serge Ibaka in 2008, and James Hardin in 2009.  Sprinkle a little Kendrick Perkins and throw in a wily sharp shooting veteran like Derek Fisher, and your basketball operations staff look like geniuses.

And both teams have fine coaches.  Greg Popovich has arguably been the league¡¦s second-best coach over the last 15 years (trailing only Phil Jackson), given his team¡¦s consistency and excellence.  Scott Brooks has a ways to go to reach those heights, but he certainly is on a nice trajectory.

===

As I watched the celebration in OKC last night, I really felt good for the community and for the NBA¡Kpartly because I have some connection to the city dating back about 8 years.  I¡¦ve conducted market research at the NCAA Division I Women¡¦s College World Series in 2004 and 2005 which has been contested at the ASA Hall of Fame Complex (home to USA Softball) since the 1980s, and when I drive west from St Louis to Los Angeles during the summers OKC is always my first stop so I can spend some time in Bricktown¡Ka cool agglomeration of restaurants, shops, and festivities which is a great place for convention visitors and tourists to get a feel for OKC¡¦s urban side.

But like San Antonio, OKC is a smaller market¡Kand without competition from any other professional sports teams, the city has embraced the team as if members of their own family.  In part because of the lack of competition for people¡¦s pro sports loyalties or their discretionary spending, and in part because the folks in these parts are use to showing their youthfully exuberant support for the region¡¦s collegiate powerhouse (Univ of Oklahoma), these factors combine to create the fervor and passion that is now becoming nationally exposed the further the Thunder move into the playoffs.
