The Thundering Herd Unstoppable ¡V or Are They?: A Fan¡¦s View

After the Oklahoma City Thunder completed their Game Five victory exhale at the beginning of the second half of Game Six against the San Antonio Spurs (June 6), they appeared unstoppable, unbeatable, and downright intimidating.

The Thunder won the last four games in the series after the Spurs notched their 20th victory in a row to take a 2-0 lead. At that point, there weren't too many basketball fans who believed Oklahoma City was ready for this type of stage. But they blew by the Spurs as if they were standing still, and in so many instances in the last four games, that was actually the case. Where was that speed-generated domination in the first two games?

The Thunder is a fast-paced, rhythm team that doesn't much care for set-up half-court basketball. They'll play it when they are forced to, and they have superior talent to sneak by, but they want to accelerate and fly all over the court. There was one possession in the Game Six in which Russell Westbrook stole a pass, drove the ball the length of the court, passing overwhelmed Spurs along the way, for an uncontested layup. It all occurred in the blink of an eye. When they roll, they're impossible to stop. New York Knick fans will understand the analogy well. There were times during the past Knick season when the fast breaks came at a furious pace, particularly when Jeremy Lin was pushing the ball. A few shots find the bottom the net, and suddenly a five-point game is a 25-point lead. For the Thunder, multiply the talent by 10, and you've got a handful.

But here's the fly in the ointment. If the Miami Heat overcomes the Celtics in Boston and then finishes them off in a Game Seven - and they should, after all, considering all that talent has to eventually result in success - the Thunder will be compelled to play a slower paced game. Most importantly, LeBron James, as one of the game's top defensive players, will be limiting Kevin Durant to human statistics.

It's the great equalizer, if the Heat get there. Something should tell us all they will.

Glenn Vallach has been a basketball fan, player, and coach during his lifetime and, as such, an ardent follower of the NBA even with all its warts. He have also been a New York Knick fan since the days of Howie Komives and Walt Bellamy, when he regularly boarded the IRT Subway at 180th Street in the Bronx for a trip to the Garden to see his heroes. 