Thunder oust Spurs to reach NBA Finals

MANILA, Philippines (2nd UPDATE)¡V The young guns of the Oklahoma City Thunder bucked a nightmarish first half and rallied to shock the top-seeded San Antonio Spurs, 107-99, in Game 6 of the Western Conference Finals at home in the Chesapeake Energy Arena.

After losing the first two games on the road in San Antonio, the Thunder reeled off four straight wins and advanced to the National Basketball Association (NBA) Finals for the first time since the franchise moved to Oklahoma City in the 2008 season.

Kevin Durant led the way for the Thunder with 34 points on top of 14 rebounds and five assists, and was serenaded with ¡§MVP¡¨ chants by the raucous home crowd at the awarding ceremony.

¡§This was the toughest game we played since I¡¦ve been here, and the San Antonio Spurs are a great organization. They do things the right way,¡¨ said Durant, who played all 48 minutes of the game.

¡§We kept going hard and I just tried to inspire my teammates by my play on both ends of the floor, and I got we got this for Oklahoma City.¡¨

The Thunder will face either the Miami Heat or the Boston Celtics in the Finals. The Celtics lead the Eastern Conference Finals 3 games to 2, with Game 6 scheduled tomorrow in Boston.

Roaring start

The Spurs got off to a roaring start thanks to the inspired play of point guard Tony Parker, who had 21 points and 10 assists by halftime.

San Antonio led by as much as 18 points and were up by 15, 63-48, going into the half.

But the Thunder chipped away at the lead in the third canto, and a three-pointer by Durant gave them the lead, 79-77, at the 1:40 mark of the third.

Oklahoma City took the lead for good with a driving lay-up from Sixth Man of the Year James Harden, 85-84, at the 9:32 mark of the final period.

The Spurs¡¦ sterling offense abandoned them at that point, as they were held scoreless for nearly five minutes before Stephen Jackson broke the spell with three free throws.

Though Jackson, Parker and Tim Duncan tried to bring San Antonio back in the game, the Thunder had a response for all of their rallies as Derek Fisher, Harden and Russell Westbrook all made shots to keep the Spurs at bay.

A driving lay-up from Parker with a little over a minute to go gave the Spurs a glimmer of hope, 103-99, but Durant iced the game when he bounced a perfect pass to center Kendrick Perkins for a slam dunk.

¡§I give my guys a lot of credit,¡¨ said Thunder coach Scott Brooks after the game. ¡§We were just worried about winning one game... They stuck together and that¡¦s what families do.¡¨

"They were more energetic. They played better defense, they were more aggressive," said Spurs guard Manu Ginobil. "Of course, we can't have their legs, their energy. We're never going to jump as high or run as fast."

Youth movement

Few analysts favored the Thunder going into their Western Conference Finals series with the Spurs, deeming them too young and inexperienced to take on the San Antonio powerhouse.

But the Thunder put the NBA on notice when they won Game 3 at home, snapping San Antonio¡¦s franchise record 20-game winning streak.

They moved one step closer to their goal when they shocked the Spurs on their home floor in Game 5, before withstanding San Antonio¡¦s first half assault to clinch the series in six games.

The young Thunder, led by 23-year-old Durant, have now defeated three of the Western Conference¡¦s powerhouses in their playoff run: they swept the defending champion Dallas Mavericks in the first round, trounced the Los Angeles Lakers in five games in the second round, and ousted the Spurs in the finals.

"As sad and disappointed as we are, you really have to think about it's almost like a Hollywood script for OKC in a sense," said Spurs coach Gregg Popovich.

"They went through Dallas, last year's champion, then they went through the Lakers, then they went through us. Those three teams represent 10 of the last 13 championships. I don't know if anybody has ever had a run or gone through a playoff playing those kinds of teams," he added.

¡§All I can think of is how this incredible group of young men has unified this city and this state like never before,¡¨ said team owner Clay Bennett, who moved the team from Seattle to Oklahoma City in 2008.

The franchise last made the NBA finals in the 1996 season as the Seattle Supersonics, losing to Michael Jordan¡¦s Chicago Bulls in six games. 