Thunder uprising marks a changing of the guard in NBA 


Moments after watching his team blow a 19-point lead and lose their fourth in a row to the Oklahoma City Thunder, Spurs coach Gregg Popovich put it in perspective.

¡§You know they went through Dallas, last year¡¦s NBA champion, then they went through the Lakers, then they went through us,¡¨ Popovich said.

Those three teams, Popovich noted, represented the Western Conference in the past 13 NBA Finals and won 10 of them. He also pointed out that if the Thunder is able to defeat Boston or Miami, you can raise that number to 11 of the last 13.

¡§I don¡¦t know if anybody has ever had a run or gone through a playoff playing those kinds of teams,¡¨ he said. ¡§It¡¦s just incredible.¡¨

The thought bubble above Popovich¡¦s head: ¡§Changing of the guard.¡¨

Thirteen years ago takes us back to the end of the Bulls and Michael Jordan¡¦s championship reign. To give you an idea how impressive the Thunder¡¦s run has been, the Bulls faced ONLY TWO prior champions¡XLakers and Pistons in 1991¡Xon their way to six titles. As luck would have it, the Bulls never had to meet the Rockets¡Xchampions in 1994 and 1995¡Xduring their title runs.

Several experts decried the Thunder¡¦s championship hopes, citing their youth and equating it with inexperience: ¡§No team with its four top scorers under the age of 24 has ever won the NBA title.¡¨ Hooey. That¡¦s like saying no team wearing short shorts has won the NBA title since the 1990 Pistons. It¡¦s a different game; times change.

Yes, the Thunder has a young core¡XKevin Durant (23), Russell Westbrook (23), James Harden (22) and Serge Ibaka (22)¡X but their team has an average of 4.9 years of experience. The ¡§old school¡¨ Spurs actually clocked in at 4.2. Durant has 38 playoff games under his belt, almost half a season. Michael Jordan played in his 38th playoff game when he was 26.

I never thought I¡¦d be writing these words when they were down 2-0 to the Spurs, but the Thunder¡¦s time has come.

They had trouble finishing out close games during the regular season, but coach Scott Brooks has figured that out by putting the ball in Durant and Harden¡¦s hands late in the game and making Westbrook a third option.

Adding Derek Fisher¡Xwho will be looking for his sixth ring¡Xwas a brilliant move. Fish gives them the backcourt stability they sometimes lack when Westbrook falters, and he can still knock down big shots.

But before we coronate the Thunder, they will have to get through one more champion. Boston, with their guile and unrelenting will, would likely be more formidable. But the hoops world is more likely jonesing for a Kevin Durant-Lebron James marquee. (¡§Not 7, not 8 but 9 seasons without a championship!¡¨ I can already hear the LeBron bashers chanting.)

Regardless whom they meet, the Thunder has arrived and they¡¦re not going away anytime soon. 