Watching Thunder win is a painful reminder of what we lost

The Oklahoma City Thunder is a talented, exciting young team it should be easy to root for. But seeing Clay Bennett celebrate makes that difficult.

"Grieving Central," Adam Brown answered his cellphone on the morning after.

I thought I was over all of this. I've really enjoyed watching the Oklahoma City Thunder play this season. This is exactly the kind of team the NBA needs to promote. It is a young, energetic team that plays the game the right way.

It is a team that has the heart of a champion. A team that wasn't bought with free-agent money like Miami. A team that looks poised to dominate the NBA for the rest of this decade.

The way the Thunder practically intimidated the San Antonio Spurs over the final four games of the Western Conference finals was as impressive as anything I've seen in sports this year.

But when it was all over, before I could flip off the TV, I saw bug-eyed Clay Bennett, the guy who stole the Sonics and moved them to Oklahoma City, hoisting the Western Conference championship trophy, and the volcanic anger I had suppressed through this playoff run boiled up inside of me again.

For the past week I've heard TNT analyst Reggie Miller talk about how we were watching a team "growing up before our very eyes."

But this team was birthed in Seattle five years ago. It began its growth here. It didn't magically grow up this past week.

Kevin Durant, perhaps the most unstoppable force in the game, played his rookie season here. Nick Collison started his career here. Russell Westbrook and Serge Ibaka were drafted by the Sonics in the final days before the move.

But watching Bennett hoisting that trophy, seeing him treated in that town like some senior-citizen Caesar, pounded home the point that we shouldn't be happy for their success.

"We root for the name on the front of the jersey," said Brown, producer of the award-winning documentary "Sonicsgate." "Not the name on the back."

Watching the celebration in OKC made me feel a little bit like the jilted boyfriend who hears his ex-girlfriend just won the lottery.

The part that angers me most watching all the yahooing in Oklahoma City is that the city hasn't earned this team. It hasn't suffered. OKC fans remind me of Florida Marlins or Arizona Diamondbacks baseball fans, who practically inherited championship teams.

OKC had one year of growing pains, and that season it was so deliriously happy just to have a major-league team in such a tiny market, it already felt like a winner.

Thunder fans don't know what it's like to cheer for an expansion team through loss after loss after loss, to ride the roller coaster from the basement to the championship and back down again.

They haven't felt the torture of losing a seventh game at home in an NBA Finals like the Sonics did in 1978. They haven't waited 12 more painful months before finally celebrating their first world championship.

I can't stand listening to TNT's Marv Albert gush about how great and how loud the OKC fans are. No kidding. Must be tough having to drag yourself to the arena to watch the best assemblage of young players since the Lakers' "Showtime" teams. What a sacrifice.

We won't know how truly great and loud these fans are until the inevitable plummet, when the Thunder tumbles into Washington Wizardville.

And it's just wrong to hear Albert say this is the franchise's fourth trip to the NBA Finals. That it's the team's first trip to the Finals since 1996.

Those teams weren't Oklahoma City's. Those teams had as much to do with OKC as Tom Douglas has to do with KFC.

"We get all these people from Oklahoma City telling us to get over it," Brown said. "But it's hard to get over it when it's constantly thrown in our faces.

"We have to continue to fight to have the Sonics' history restored to Seattle. We have to use this as positive motivation so that the banners can hang again from the rafters in Seattle."

The morning after dawned wet and gray and lugubrious here. It fit the mood of Seattle's basketball fans.

But we have two options here. We can be victims. We can throw things at the flat screen as we watch in sadness the beaming Bennett bask in the love he feels from his people. We can sink into a deep depression and ignore The Finals.

Or we can become activists.

We can employ our anger to lobby the city and county councils, to rally in Occidental Square on June 14, to push for this once-in-a-lifetime arena deal. Chris Hansen's deal is the best privately funded arena deal ever. If it doesn't get passed, Seattle doesn't deserve a team.

"It's game time," Brown said. "And in the words of Rage Against The Machine's Zack de la Rocha, 'Your anger is a gift. Use it.' "