Spurs eliminated after squandering 18-point lead in 107-99 loss to finals-bound Thunder

OKLAHOMA CITY ¡X For the San Antonio Spurs, a season spent building greatness unraveled almost in an instant.

From 20 straight wins to four consecutive losses, from 18 points up to behind when it counted, the Spurs saw it all wash away too fast.



Kevin Durant had 34 points and 14 rebounds while playing all of regulation for the first time all season, and the Oklahoma City Thunder came back from an 18-point deficit to eliminate San Antonio with a 107-99 victory in Game 6 of the Western Conference finals on Wednesday night.

¡§It is very disappointing. I thought this was our time to get back to the finals and push for another championship,¡¨ said four-time champion Tim Duncan, who had 25 points and 14 rebounds.

¡§That was our singular goal but obviously it ends here.¡¨

Just a week earlier, the Spurs seemed well on their way. They were only the fourth NBA team ever to win 20 straight games. Then came four losses in seven days.

¡§It¡¦s upsetting for the organization, the team, the fans and the city. It¡¦s something where we were definitely trying to get to the championship,¡¨ said Stephen Jackson, who hit six 3-pointers and scored 23 points.

¡§It¡¦s upsetting. Tim wanted it bad and I wanted it bad for Tim. At the end of the day you have to take your hats off to those guys.¡¨

Russell Westbrook added 25 points for the Thunder, who erased a 15-point halftime deficit before pulling ahead to stay in the fourth.

Durant grabbed the final rebound, dribbled the ball across halfcourt and raised his right fist to celebrate with a sold-out crowd wearing free white T-shirts. The franchise will play for the NBA title for the first time since 1996, before relocating from Seattle.

Even before the final buzzer, Durant indulged by hugging his mother and brother seated courtside after a foul was called with 14 seconds remaining.

¡§I never want to take those moments for granted,¡¨ Durant said. ¡§I know it¡¦s just one step closer to our dreams, but it felt good.¡¨

Tony Parker had 29 points and 12 assists for San Antonio, but only eight of the points and two assists came in the second half. Oklahoma City outscored the Spurs 59-36 after halftime.

The Thunder took the lead for good early in the fourth quarter, getting nine of their first 13 points on free throws as the fouls started to pile up for San Antonio ¡X six on the defensive end and three on the offensive end in the first 7 minutes.

Even Durant drew what he thought was his first charge of the season, stepping in front of Ginobili.

¡§Down the stretch, it seemed like they got every whistle possible and that really changed the tide,¡¨ Duncan said. ¡§We were playing tough defense and trying to get stops, but the whistle kept blowing and they went to the line.¡¨

The Thunder, only three years removed from a 3-29 start that had them on pace for the worst record in NBA history, went through the only three West teams to reach the finals since 1998 ¡X Dallas, the Los Angeles Lakers and San Antonio ¡X to earn their shot at the title.

Game 1 of the NBA finals will be Tuesday night in Oklahoma City against either Boston or Miami. The Celtics lead that series 3-2 and can earn a trip to the finals with a win at home in Game 6 on Thursday night.
