The Heat Withstand a Big Night by Rondo

MIAMI ¡X They watched Rajon Rondo whirl through them like a blender, witnessed a Ray Allen renaissance and felt the full force of the Boston Celtics¡¦ survival reflex. For three stressful, strenuous hours Wednesday, the Miami Heat lived the mantra coined by their slogan-happy coach: ¡§Embrace the difficult.¡¨ 

The Heat embraced it, cradled it and finally crushed it, and perhaps put a crimp in the Celtics¡¦ spirit, with an exhilarating, exhausting 115-111 overtime victory in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals. Miami came within minutes of losing home-court advantage in the series but instead took a 2-0 advantage after a late push from LeBron James and Dwyane Wade.

¡§There just can¡¦t be any other way with this team ¡X it has to be the hard way,¡¨ Spoelstra, wearing a rueful smile, said of the Celtics. He said he had expected as much, telling his team before the series that to beat Boston, they must ¡§embrace the difficult.¡¨

On Wednesday, that meant overcoming a record-setting performance by Rondo, who finished with 44 points, 10 assists and 8 rebounds ¡X a combination never before reached in N.B.A. playoff history.

It meant surviving Allen¡¦s clutch shooting, Wade¡¦s intermittent struggles and repeated deficits. The Heat trailed by 15 points in the first half, making this the biggest comeback in franchise playoff history.

¡§We never felt like we won the game or lost the game until there were zeros on the clock, and we looked up there and there was 115-111,¡¨ said James, who led the Heat with 34 points, 10 rebounds and 7 assists.

The series now shifts to Boston for two games, with history working against the Celtics. Only three teams have won a conference finals after losing the first two games. (The last to do it was James¡¦s Cleveland Cavaliers, against the Detroit Pistons in 2007.) Miami has never lost a series after taking a 2-0 lead.

¡§I thought we played with great heart tonight,¡¨ said Celtics Coach Doc Rivers, whose team was routed in Game 1, ¡§but I didn¡¦t think we played smart all the time.¡¨

The Celtics played the entire overtime period without Paul Pierce, who fouled out in the final minute of regulation after scoring 21 points. Keyon Dooling and Mickael Pietrus fouled out in the extra period. And for the second straight game, Rivers was openly perturbed with the officiating.

¡§LeBron James took 24 free throws tonight, and our team took 29,¡¨ he said. ¡§Paul Pierce fouled out of a game where he was attacking the basket. It¡¦s just tough.¡¨

Allen forced overtime with a 3-pointer that tied the score at 99-99 with 34.3 seconds left in regulation. Rondo scored the Celtics¡¦ first 6 points in overtime, giving them their final lead at 105-103. James tied the score on a tip-in, and Miami went ahead for good on a Udonis Haslem dunk. Wade put the game away in style, with a driving layup over Kevin Garnett that became a 3-point play.

That made it 110-105 with 59.7 seconds to go, and even then, the Celtics refused to concede. Rondo hit two 3-pointers ¡X his first of the series ¡X in the final 14.5 seconds, although Boston never had the ball with a chance to tie. Wade and James combined for five free throws down the stretch to secure the win.

Rondo converted 16 of 24 field goals and 10 of 12 free throws, and he played the entire 53 minutes. His point total was a career high.

¡§Doesn¡¦t seem like he even missed,¡¨ Wade said. ¡§It seemed like he was 24 for 24.¡¨

Rivers called Rondo¡¦s performance ¡§absolutely phenomenal,¡¨ but added, ¡§It¡¦s tough to have him play that way and not win the game.¡¨

It was Rondo who powered Boston with his sheer audacity to start the game, alternately hitting uncanny jumpers and hitting teammates deep in the paint. After his fourth deep jumper, Rondo ¡X who is known as a poor shooter ¡X held his hand aloft for an extra few seconds. He had 22 points and 7 assists by halftime.

No player has ever hit the point, assist and rebound levels that Rondo compiled Wednesday. Rondo was informed that he had made history. His sour expression never changed.

¡§It¡¦s irrelevant,¡¨ he said. ¡§We lost.¡¨

Miami compensated for Wade¡¦s slow start by getting a huge performance from Mario Chalmers (22 points). Haslem came through in the second half and finished with 13 points and 11 rebounds.

It was altogether a dizzying night for everyone.

The Celtics took a 15-point lead in the second quarter, but lost it in the third. The Heat took a 7-point lead in the fourth but could not hold it. The Celtics led by 5 with 3:49 to go in regulation, but that would not stand either.

The Heat scored nine unanswered points over a three-minute span, taking a 98-94 lead with 1:08 to play. That was short-lived, too.

Garnett dunked off a Rondo lob, and Allen followed with his game-tying 3-pointer. James missed a 20-footer at the regulation buzzer.

Allen has been struggling through an ankle injury, but he bounced back with 13 points on Wednesday and made 5 of 11 shots, giving the Celtics an encouraging sign as they head home.

Allen¡¦s day began with a solitary shooting session around 10 a.m. ¡X 30 minutes before his teammates arrived for the morning shootaround. He glided from station to station around the arc, hitting nearly every shot, his release never looking better.

¡§It¡¦s like being home,¡¨ Allen said afterward.

It had been at least two years since Allen¡¦s last pre-shootaround shooting session. But the situation clearly called for extreme measures. Allen was shooting an uncharacteristic 39 percent in the playoffs. Because of his balky ankle, he has had few opportunities to keep his Hall of Fame stroke fine-tuned.

¡§At some point, I¡¦ve got to kind of put my body through some type of regular shooting, so I know what I¡¦m dealing with,¡¨ he said.

The work paid quick dividends. Allen hit his first three jumpers, all in the second quarter, and had 7 points by halftime, surpassing his Game 1 total.

¡§You know he¡¦s going to do everything it requires,¡¨ Rivers said earlier. ¡§Ray is a tough, determined individual. He¡¦s Ray Allen because that¡¦s what he does.¡¨ 