NBA: Boston Celtics win, cut Miami Heat's series lead to 2-1 in East finals

Kevin Garnett was fouled underneath the basket and went hard to the court. He remained on his back, motionless, as his teammates rushed over to check on him and offer a hand.

The Boston Celtics center ignored them, instead gingerly rolling over onto his stomach before extending his arms to ease himself off the court. Down and up he went, pushing off the floor on his knuckles eight times for some postseason push-ups.

For the first time in the Eastern Conference finals, Boston was having fun with the Miami Heat.

"That's old school. My uncle taught me to do push-ups on my knuckles. That's some Army-Navy stuff," Garnett joked in the locker room after leading host Boston to a 101-91 victory that cut Miami's lead in the best-of-seven series to 2-1.

Garnett had 24 points and 11 rebounds, Paul Pierce scored 23 points and Rajon Rondo had 21 points with 10 assists to help the Celtics avoid falling into a 3-0 hole in the series after losing the first two games in Miami.

Game 4 is Sunday night in Boston.

"They defended their home court," Rondo said. "In a couple of days, we'll do the same."

LeBron James scored 34 points, but the NBA MVP and the rest of the Heat went cold during a 7-minute stretch at the end of the first quarter and the beginning of the second, when Boston outscored Miami 15-0 to turn a six-point deficit into a nine-point lead.

The Celtics extended it to 24 points early in the fourth quarter before 

Miami came back and cut it to 95-87 with help from three 3-pointers by Mike Miller. But James had a turnover and missed a 3-pointer in the last 2 minutes to squelch the Heat's hope of a comeback.

"You're trying to fight back the whole time," said James, who scored 16 points in the first quarter but just four with one rebound and one assist in the fourth. "We made a run, but it was too much."

Dwyane Wade scored 18 points and Mario Chalmers had 14 points and six assists for Miami.

The Heat is still without All-Star forward Chris Bosh, sidelined by a lower abdominal strain he suffered in Game 1 of the second-round series with Indiana. He traveled with Miami to Boston and took part in the Heat's morning workout Friday, but the team didn't do much so it's hard to gauge any progress by that.

Coach Erik Spoelstra said Bosh will be re-evaluated daily.

Woolridge dies: Orlando Woolridge, the rugged forward who carved out a reputation over 13 NBA seasons as a scoring specialist and one of the original alley-oop artists, died late Thursday at his parents' home in Mansfield, La. He was 52.

DeSoto Parish Chief Deputy Coroner Billy Locke said Woolridge died while under hospice care for a chronic heart condition.

Known for his high-flying dunks and ability to throw down lob passes in the open court, Woolridge played for the Chicago Bulls, Los Angeles Lakers, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Denver, Milwaukee and Detroit, and also coached the Los Angeles Sparks of the WNBA.

Bobcats: A person familiar with the situation says the Bobcats have met with Indiana Pacers assistant coach Brian Shaw about their vacant head coaching position.