Miami Heat at Boston Celtics: Game 3 Predictions

June 1, 2012

The Celtics and Heat meet tonight in Boston for Game 3 of their playoff matchup.  Miami enters with a 2-0 series lead, but things could change as the teams shift to the Celtics・ home court.

A quick look at the odds over at Betfirms.com for Game 3 shows the Celtics favored by 1.5 points, while the total sits at just 179 points.
Miami Heat

Miami needed a little bit of magic to find a way to win Game 2 in this series, eventually out-lasting Boston in overtime to win 115-111.  Both LeBron James and Dwayne Wade went without a field gold in the fourth quarter and both missed what could have been game changing free throws in the waning minutes of the game.  With that being said, this dynamic duo did combine for 57 points.

The big story in this game is how well Miami・s non-superstars stepped up when they needed them the most.  Mario Chalmers and Undonis Haslem were integral in the victory, with Chalmers scoring 22 points and Halsem coming off of the bench and posting a double-double (13 points, 11 rebounds).

Boston has taken the approach that they aren・t going to let Wade and James beat them down the stretch.  While that strategy seems to have worked for the most part in Game 2, the Heats・ roll players were effective enough to will Miami to a victory.  They・ll need to keep that same intensity up in Boston Friday, as there is no doubt the defensive intensity will be high for the Celtics.
Boston Celtics

The Celtics head home for Game 3, but they have to be disappointed in how they finished (or didn・t finish) Game 2.  Boston led by as much as 15 points, but the Heat rallied in the second half and eventually pulled off the comeback to win.

Despite the loss, Rajon Rando had the best game of his career and one of the best performances in the NBA playoffs in recent history.  He played the entire game, scored 44 points, had 10 assists and added eight rebounds. It・s become clear that he is now Boston・s best scoring threat and the Celtics need him to perform at a high level to contend with and offensive-minded team like the Heat.

It will be interesting to see how the Celtics react to that heart-breaking loss in Game 2.  Being down two games to none is not impossible, but if Boston comes out flat at home it・s safe to say they will quickly be on their way out of the playoffs.
Prediction

This is an important game in the series, but I think Boston will take the task a bit more seriously being down 0-2.  Boston is better defensively in front of their home crowd, and I actually wouldn・t be surprised if both teams slowed the pace down significantly in Game 3.  I like the under in this game and the Celtics to come out and win by 4-6 points.

Final Score Prediction:  Celtics 86, Heat 82