Miami Heat name of the game is t-r-u-s-t

BOSTON ¡V Miami Heat guard Dwyane Wade, at the beginning of the Eastern Conference finals against the Boston Celtics, raised the subject of the team's willingness to trust teammates.

"We're not playing as much 'hero ball' that we played last year," Wade had said. "We're getting off the ball. We're penetrating. We're trusting each other a lot more. It comes with time. In the fourth quarter we believe in each other, and that's been a success for us."

Anecdotal evidence is one thing. Tangible proof another.

And tangible proof there is that Wade, and forwards LeBron James and Chris Bosh, have gained more trust in their teammates.

Last season, James, Wade and Bosh took 62.3% of Miami's shots in the regular season. This season, the percentage dropped to 54%.

Comparing last season's playoffs to this season's playoffs is difficult because of the lower abdominal strain that has sidelined Bosh the past seven games. James and Wade have needed to carry even more of the offensive load, and they have done so with some remarkable performances against the Indiana Pacers in the Eastern Conference semifinals and against the Celtics. Miami has won five in a row since two losing in a row against the Pacers.

But James and Wade have no problem passing and running plays for teammates. They have had to increase their scoring, but forwards Mike Miller, Shane Battier and Udonis Haslem and guard Mario Chalmers also had to score more.

The latest test is tonight in Game 3 at Boston (8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN).

"It's going to be very key that guys continue to step up and our bench guys continue to play the role they have been playing since we've been on this winning streak," Wade said.

Chalmers had 22 points and Haslem had 13 in Miami's 119-115 overtime victory in Game 2. Battier had nine points, all on three-pointers, and Miller, playing through a variety of injuries, had seven points.

In each of Miami's past five victories, at least one of those players made a significant scoring contribution.

Boston coach Doc Rivers has noticed.

"They trust each other better," Rivers said. "I don't know if I didn't expect it, but they are doing it. They really trust their teammates. That's why Chalmers had the game he had. I think Chalmers is playing with far more confidence. They're running him in pick-and-rolls.

"Last year to the early part of this year, he was pretty easy (to guard). Basically, the ball was in LeBron's hands and Wade's hands, and they pretty much shot the ball. Now, they're running stuff on both sides of the floor. More guys are involved and it makes it more difficult to guard them."

Miami's role players and bench have been criticized often, but coach Erik Spoelstra has been quick to defend. He says he doesn't always need points from his bench. It's the other parts of the game ¡X rebounding, defending, diving for loose balls ¡X that help determine the outcome.

But he needs some extra points now.

"Large parts of the regular season, we've been much better moving the ball than we were last year, and it's been a process for us," Spoelstra said. "We have some habits and instincts that we've had to change a little bit for the betterment of our team. Guys understand that. We have a high IQ team. When your role players are actively involved and they're aggressive, and when we're aggressive looking for them, we're a better team."

Part of those habits and instincts are Wade's and James' penchant for wanting to do it all. Along with evidence, it required time and patience for Wade and James to have that trust.

"It's just being around guys every day, understanding the purity in guys' hearts and their beliefs and their will and how hard they work. It's not always easy," Wade said. "Sometimes you feel you can do it, but you understand there are better opportunities out there than me forcing a shot, or we turn the ball over because I'm trying to force the issue.

"Being around guys so much, you understand what we're all here for, what we're playing for. You've got to trust. You've got to believe. That's why it's a team sport."

The Heat's trust in Chalmers is most evident. To a degree, Haslem, Miller and Battier had that trust from James and Wade. Chalmers, who from time to time gets an earful from James and Wade, is playing 10 more minutes a game this postseason than last and is averaging four more points, 2.6 more rebounds and 1.6 more assists.

"Just actually doing it," Chalmers said. "Teammates give me a lot of trust, and the coaching staff gives me a lot of trust. I'm just showing what I can do. I pick and choose and my moments. I feel pretty confident. ¡K You just have to have trust that we will do it."