Spoelstra: Heat look to avoid 'whiplash' after getting 'butt kicked' by Celtics

BOSTON -- Miami Heat coach Erik Spoelstra isn't one to raise his voice when talking to the media, but he isn't afraid to publicly put his team on blast, even if the words are delivered as calmly and robotically as an automated GPS device dispenses directions.

"Defensively we were as poor as we've been all playoffs," Spoelstra said of the Heat's performance during a 101-91 Game 3 loss to the Boston Celtics at TD Garden on Friday night. "They were able to get probably the easiest buckets they've been able to get all playoffs. Particularly in the paint, at the rim. They had playoff highs in lay-up attempts and points in the paint. We have to be much tougher in those areas."

The Celtics put up an eye-popping 58 points in the paint on 29-for-44 shooting, nearly as many as they managed in Games 1 and 2 combined (64). Forward Kevin Garnett led the charge, scoring 24 points on 10-for-16 shooting, playing above the Heat defenders and frustrating LeBron James to the point that he slammed the basketball into the court out of frustration after allowing a fourth-quarter dunk.

"Their penetration and concerted efforts to get Garnett in the paint were damaging for us," Heat forward Shane Battier said. "[Garnett's] length is a little different. He's agile. A guy like [Indiana Pacers center Roy] Hibbert -- he was so big but he was a lot slower than KG. KG is pretty agile, and his length makes him a different challenge."

If James wasn't afraid to show a little emotion on the court, Spoelstra kept up his placid demeanor while addressing a large media contingent on the TD Garden court. Even as he surgically picked apart his team's performance point-by-point.

"You look at all the effort areas, and we dominated the first two games," he said. "We got our butt kicked in all of them last night. It's not a stretch to go that route. Points in the paint, they pounded us. Rebounding they pounded us. Free throws they beat us. Lay-up attempts, they beat us. Every area that has to do with toughness and effort, we lost. And in the first two games we were winning those categories. Loose balls, 50/50 opportunities."

Miami was -12 on the glass in Game 3 after going +15 in Game 1 and holding even in Game 2. The Heat were -6 on free throws attempted in Game 3, with Dwyane Wade attempting zero, after going +2 in Game 1 and +18 in Game 2.

While Celtics guard Rajon Rondo dominated Game 2 with his all-around performance, Game 3 was the first time in the series where Boston really dictated the play. They succeeded in holding Miami without a field goal for more than eight minutes in the first half and ran up a 24-point second half lead thanks to Garnett's interior play and strong, unexpected contributions from the bench.

Spoelstra and company said that Boston's increased effort at home was expected and that the goal in preparing for Game 4 was to avoid over-reacting.

"All the noise and everything out there, you can get whiplash if you allow yourself to," Spoelstra said.

Battier added that Boston's interior dominance wasn't a cause for panic but rather a reminder to return to the team's defensive principles.

"We've been undersized on paper all season long," he said. "So, we know we've had to work extra hard and extra smart to really paint points. It's nothing new for us. We know we're undersized. Work quicker, smarter and more together."

Heat eye better looks, quicker start for Dwyane Wade

James has been consistently amazing so far during these playofss but Wade has swung between sensational and moderately effective. During Game 3, as in Game 2, he was double-teamed aggressively and found his ability to impact on offense compromised as a result.

Wade reportedly had his knee drained during the Eastern Conference semifinals series against the Pacers. Spoelstra brushed off questions about Wade's health after the game on Friday night and at practice on Saturday.

The All-Star guard's focus for Game 4 will be adjusting to Boston's doubling pressure and working to get high-percentage looks after shooting 2-for-9 on attempts outside the paint in Game 3.

"It's no secret, guys, I'm getting doubled at the top of the key," Wade said. "I'm getting doubled in the paint. Let's not shoot a turnaround jumpshot all the time, which is not a good shot for our team. You're going to have to find other ways to loosen things up. I'm a patient person. Eventually things will loosen up and I'll get my opportunities to attack."

Wade finished with 18 points on 9-for-20 shooting overall. James, who had a team-high 34 points, including 16 in the first quarter, said he would look to establish Wade earlier.

"I know that D-Wade wants to get a few easy buckets," James said. "Then he shoots his jumper, gets to the free throw line. I had it going early on in Game 3 but I'm going to need his dominant play as well. I will make that conscious effort to get him going early."

Despite the Game 3 loss and his own off-night, Wade was light-hearted Wade on Saturday. He began his media access session with a joke and a few questions of his own for the many reporters present.

"I think last night I did a press conference about midnight, and I woke up today at 12 somethin'. Ain't nothing changed. Nothing at all. So what y'all got for me? What kind of questions y'all got?"