Rondo's 'hit the deck' smack talk floors Wade

The Heat・s Dwyane Wade promised retaliation if the Celtics follow through on their threats to have Wade and LeBron James ：hit the deck； in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals on Wednesday night. ：Obviously, you・ve got to protect yourself,； Wade said Tuesday after practice. ：We・re men, just like they・re men. We・re not going to let nobody just come in and punk us.； Shortly after the Heat routed the Celtics in Game 1 on Monday night, Boston・s Rajon Rondo talked about the need to send Miami・s top players to the court when they drive to the basket. But after hearing Wade・s response, Boston・s playmaker tried to issue a clarification, probably in hopes that he won・t face a reprimand from the league. ：I didn・t say undercut them or take them down or play dirty,； he said. ：It・s just basketball. I don・t think nobody is going to punk anybody out here. You can・t fight. You・ll get fined. There・s only so much you can do, as far as acting like a tough guy.； James, the other intended target, practically laughed off the idea that Boston will try to send him to the deck after he ripped the Celtics for 32 points. ：It・s not surprising when I hear it or see it throughout the game,； said James, an imposing physical presence at 6-8, 250 pounds. ：It・s been going on since I was a freshman in high school.； Upset with how they allowed Miami to go for 19 layups in Game 1, the Celtics want to send a message. ：It・s the Eastern Conference finals, so you have to expect it to be physical,； Boston・s Kevin Garnett said. ：You have to put some type of defensive impact to the game. ：When you・re playing against two of the greatest players to ever play the game, who are offensively gifted with high basketball IQs, the margin of error is very small.； The Heat has shown in these playoffs that it won・t be afraid to go back at its opponent. Miami retaliated against the Pacers after Indiana・s Tyler Hansbrough delivered a fragrant foul on Wade in Game 5. Later, Udonis Haslem went back at Hansbrough with a hard flagrant foul, drawing a one-game suspension that he served when the Heat eliminated the Pacers. He later admitted he did it on purpose, to get back at Hansbrough for his rough play. The Heat・s reserve center, Dexter Pittman, was suspended for three games for his flagrant foul on Lance Stephenson in the same game in which Haslem took down Hansbrough. Pittman is serving the last game of his suspension in Game 2, but is not expected to play in this series.