Miami Heat in catch-up mode ¡¥the whole night¡¦ against Celtics

Read more here: http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/06/02/2828810/miami-heat-in-catch-up-mode-the.html#storylink=cpy

BOSTON -- Shane Battier and Udonis Haslem looked confused, scuffing their feet along the parquet floors of TD Garden one way, then the other, turning their heads back and forth.

Rajon Rondo had sprinted up the floor with possession.

Meanwhile the best three-point shooter in NBA history set up shop on the far corner of the court.

He stood there all alone chewing his gum, and even a pair of cranky ankles weren¡¦t going to stop the 37-year-old Ray Allen from there.

Haslem was close to Allen, but he immediately slid to cover the Celtics¡¦ MVP instead. Battier had been a few feet away too, but Rondo drew his attention and somehow Allen was the forgotten man.

Famous jumper

Rondo made a quick pass.

Allen corralled the ball and took one of those smooth jumpers he¡¦s become so famous for.

The three points were added on the scoreboard as the Celtics finished the second quarter up 55-42 and the Heat could never recover.

From late in the first quarter to the final whistle in the second, the Heat defense appeared disorganized and chaotic, trying to chase down an aging, yet suddenly-quick Celtics squad which scored 33 points in a span of 14:38.

Miami scored just 14, eventually losing, 101-91.

¡§From that point on, we were playing catch up the whole night,¡¨ said Heat coach Eric Spoelstra. ¡§We couldn¡¦t get over the hump.¡¨

Spoelstra made nine substitutions and called three timeouts during those 14-plus minutes, yet he couldn¡¦t seem to coddle his team into a comfort zone.

He was also battling a raucous Garden crowd that was noisy from the opening tip-off.

Spoelstra appeared to have some trouble communicating with his players from the bench, screaming directions that may have never even been received.

¡§We know this is a tough place to play,¡¨ Spoelstra said. ¡§But we know we can play a lot better than this.¡¨

Led by Rondo¡¦s speed on transition, the Celtics continued to create matchups problems as they approached the basket before the Heat could set up its defense.

Rondo, who finished the game with 10 assists, set up a pair of three-point plays (one to Allen, one to Pierce) after sprinting down the floor with possession.

¡§I told him to keep running the team,¡¨ Celtics coach Doc Rivers said, referring to Rondo¡¦s fast-paced play. ¡§He stabilized us really.¡¨

Faster unit

Down 20 points in the fourth quarter, Spoelstra opted for a faster unit in response, giving Mike Miller a chance to provide a spark. Miller went 3 for 4 from behind the arc and added four rebounds as the Heat outscored the Celtics 28-16 in the final frame.

¡§We had to do something to change the dynamic of the game and try to speed it up,¡¨ Spoelstra said.

Asked if the Heat would run with that style of play more often this series as Miami keeps trying to find the answers for Rondo, the coach only said, ¡§At this point, everything is on the table.¡¨

Read more here: http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/06/02/2828810/miami-heat-in-catch-up-mode-the.html#storylink=cpy