Celtics bounce back with Game 3 win vs. Heat

BOSTON ¡V The Miami Heat saw Rajon Rondo almost single-handedly steal Game 2 in Miami with his scoring.

The Heat saw Rondo adapt his style in Game 3. Instead of carrying the scoring load, Rondo played the more traditional role of point guard and led the Boston Celtics to a 101-91 victory Friday with his passing and floor leadership to get Boston back into the Eastern Conference finals.

Boston trails the best-of-seven series 2-1, with Game 4 on Sunday in Boston (8:30 p.m. ET). The Heat lost for only the fourth time in the playoffs.

    BLOG: Bosh in Heat walk-through; Spoelstra downplays progress

Rondo still scored. He had 21 points, with 10 assists and six rebounds, but he got big help offensively from center Kevin Garnett (24 points, 11 rebounds) and forward Paul Pierce (23 points, four rebounds, four assists).

"They played well. They got us tonight," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said.

Garnett, in particular, hurt the Heat. The Celtics were plus-27 with Garnett on the floor and held Miami to 38% field goal shooting. When he was on the bench, the Heat shot 84% and outscored the Celtics by 17 points.

Getting Garnett more involved in the offense was one of coach Doc Rivers' goals.

"Listen, it's exhausting, grabbing, holding you, fronting you, it's exhausting," Rivers said of the Heat's tactics on Garnett in the series. "At the end of the day, nobody is taller than him. I told them, 'Just throw it up. Kevin will go get it.' Overall, I really liked our passing."

While Boston squandered Rondo's Game 2 performance (44 points, 10 assists, eight rebounds) in the 119-115 overtime loss, it was not deflating inside the Celtics locker room.

Rivers said his team left Miami encouraged, not discouraged, saying, "Our guys are very confident going into Game 3."

Rivers almost always has a good read on his team. He wanted to see what happened in a home game before jumping to any concrete conclusions about where the series is headed. He liked what he saw.

The home team has won every game in both conference finals, and it certainly was good to be home for the Celtics.

Boston's bench came through, too. Guards Keyon Dooling and Marquis Daniels provided a spark with their scoring and defense.

"We were probably not as aggressive as we were the other night on both ends of the court," Spoelstra said. "A lot of easy points for them in the paint."

The outcome shouldn't be too surprising. Boston was 3-1 against the Heat during the regular season, and in two games at the Garden, Boston won both by double digits: 91-72 on April 1 and 78-66 on April 24.

Forward LeBron James was Miami's only reliable scorer. He had 34 points on 16 of 26 shooting, with eight rebounds and eight assists.

Miami guard Dwyane Wade finished with 18 points, but he had another slow start with just six in the first half. Wade has been preaching patience, saying he is letting the offense come to him. But no one beyond James was contributing offensively for much of the game.

The Celtics also did a much better job keeping Miami off the foul line. The Heat shot 47 free throws in Game 2, but just 20 in Game 3 and they made just 10.

During its five-game playoff winning streak Miami dominated the third quarter, outscoring its opponent by double figures each time ¡X 146-86 combined.

Not in Game 3. Boston opened the third quarter with a 20-12 run and built a 75-54 advantage on Rondo's 15-foot fadeaway jump shot.

Miami made a late run, trimming an 85-63 deficit at the end of the third to 91-82 on Wade's dunk with 5:41 left in the fourth. Miller hit consecutive three-pointers during the late spurt.

However, the Celtics had created a lead too large for Miami to overcome, especially with Rondo leading the way.

"He stabilized us, really," Rivers said of Rondo in the fourth quarter. "We couldn't score, but they scored every time. When they do that, then the game does become a halfcourt game. ¡K I said, 'Guys, if we get stops, we can beat them down the floor. But we have to get stops.'"

Spoelstra, however, was not discouraged, despite a lack of scoring beyond James and Wade. The Heat had been getting points from guard Mario Chalmers and forwards Udonis Haslem, Mike Miller and Shane Battier during the five-game winning streak. They did not score in the first half.

"All of our energy, all of our focus, will be on Sunday," Spoelstra said of getting control of the series in Game 4 on the road. "We still have a golden opportunity."