Celtics drop Game 1 to Heat, 93-79

For nine minutes, the Boston Celtics were vintage. Everything was working, points were coming in bunches, the Miami crowd was rendered quiet and a big deficit disappeared.

It was about the only time all night things went Boston¡¦s way ¡X and that wasn¡¦t enough to take down LeBron James and the Heat.

James scored 32 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, Dwyane Wade scored 10 of his 22 points in the fourth quarter and the Heat beat the Celtics 93-79 on Monday night in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals.

Shane Battier, playing in the conference finals for the first time, had 10 points and 10 rebounds for the Heat, who wasted an early 11-point first-half lead before running away to break a halftime tie. Miami outrebounded the Celtics 48-33 and blocked 11 shots.

¡§We let Wade, we let LeBron play in extreme comfort,¡¦¡¦ Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. ¡§And we gave the other guys everything they wanted as well.¡¦¡¦

Kevin Garnett had 23 points and 10 rebounds for Boston, which got 16 points, nine rebounds and seven assists from Rajon Rondo and 12 points from Paul Pierce.

Pierce was 5 for 18. Rondo shot 8 of 20. Ray Allen was 1 for 7 from the floor and 3 for 7 from the foul line ¡X missing four free throws for just the third time in his 1,270 career regular-season and playoff games.

¡§We kept fighting,¡¦¡¦ Rondo said. ¡§It wasn¡¦t pretty. We missed four or five layups, a bunch of free throws. That being said, we were tied at halftime but we just didn¡¦t come out with the right mindset in the second half.¡¦¡¦

The Celtics finished with four technical fouls (not including another for a defensive three-second violation), three of them coming in the second quarter ¡X which was by far Boston¡¦s best of the night. One came for delaying the game, Allen got another and Rivers picked one up as well for arguing a call.

¡§I know mine wasn¡¦t,¡¦¡¦ Rivers said, asked if the technicals were deserved. ¡§I can tell you that much. I don¡¦t know how long I¡¦ve been in the league, but that has to rank as the worst I¡¦ve ever had. ¡K Everybody has to keep their composure, not just the players and the coaches.¡¦¡¦

Game 2 is Wednesday in Miami.

It¡¦s the third straight year the Heat and Celtics have met in the playoffs, the third straight year James has seen his postseason path go through Boston as well ¡X the first of those matchups coming in 2010, his final run with Cleveland.

Each of those came in the first or second rounds, never one round away from the NBA finals.