Miami Heat at Boston Celtics, NBA Eastern Finals Game 4: Fan Playoff Preview

During the last two games of this series the Boston Celtics have looked strong against the Miami Heat. Opposing fans and media alike were talking sweep and/or total dominance over the aging Celtics. A sweep will not happen and total dominance has not been seen. It has been a good series for Boston, despite the outcome of Game 2.

Kevin Garnett has really stepped up in this series, and had another strong performance in Game 3 with 24 points and 11 rebounds. If Boston wants to get out of this series and move on to the NBA Finals, he needs to continue this effort.

As for Rajon Rondo, no one can deny his performance in game two was inspiring. If he can do something similar just three more times in this series, paired with a strong Garnett, the Celtics should have more of a chance than public perception is giving them. A hot Paul Pierce and Ray Allen would just be icing on the championship cake.

The matchup:

The Boston Celtics will take on the Miami Heat at the TD Garden located in Boston, Mass. on Sunday, June 3, 2012 at 8:30 p.m. EDT.

The standings:

Boston comes into Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Finals finishing the regular season with a 39-27 record. The Celtics defeated the Atlanta Hawks in the Eastern Conference Quarters in six games and the Philadelphia 76ers in the Eastern Conference Semis in seven games.

Miami enters the matchup having finished the season with a 46-20. The Heat defeated the New York Knicks in the Eastern Conference Quarters in five games and the Indiana Pacers in the Eastern Conference Semis in six games.

The playoff series:

The playoff series is currently stands at 2-1 in favor of the Heat.

Where to watch:

The game can be watched live nationwide on ESPN.

The playoff statistic leaders:

Boston: Kevin Garnett- 19.7 points per game, Rajon Rondo- 11.7 assists per game, Kevin Garnett- 10.6 rebounds per game.

Miami: LeBron James- 29.9 points per game, LeBron James- 5.7 assists per game, LeBron James- 9.1 rebounds per game.

Injuries to note:

Boston: Chris Wilcox (aortic abnormality), Jeff Green (aortic aneurysm), Avery Bradley (dislocated left shoulder).

Miami: Chris Bosh (abdominal strain). 