Heat vs Celtics Game 5 preview: Will Chris Bosh return tonight? 

The tables have turned in what now has become a 2-2 series between the Boston Celtics and the Miami Heat. The important Game Five is tonight and much, like the game last night between the Oklahoma City Thunder and the San Antonio Spurs, the winner of this game could very well win the series.

Last season, the Heat took the series in five games against Boston, winning in Miami. This time though, Boston seems to have more fight in them as LeBron James and Kevin Garnett have gone back and fourth under the rim the whole series. This may be the last shot for the Celtics, which is why the team is feeling added pressure to win it all this year.

One guy that is carrying them right now is Rajon Rondo, who is averaging 24 points and 10.5 assists in this series. Rondo went to high limits in game two where he didn¡¦t sit at all the whole game. Celtics coach Doc Rivers said after game two that Rondo was heart and soul of the team out there.

¡§[Rondo] was absolutely phenomenal. Put the whole team at times on his shoulders,¡¨ coach Doc Rivers said after the Game Two loss. ¡§It¡¦s tough to have him play that way and not win the game.¡¨

One guy who is expected back tonight, barring any set back, will be Heat big man ¡V and the third piece to the big three ¡V Chris Bosh. Bosh has been out of action since he left game one in the conference semis against the Indiana Pacers early when he strained his abdominal muscle.

Even with his return the Heat¡¦s Dwyane Wade, who missed a game-winning three-point shot in Game Four, said that even if Bosh is back, he won¡¦t be Superman for the team.

¡§He¡¦s been out for awhile, so whenever he gets back it¡¦s going to take him awhile to get his rhythm back,¡¨ Wade said.

Heat head coach Eric Spoelstra said that with Bosh being out the offense hasn¡¦t been the same.

¡§Our offense has changed considerably with him out,¡¨ Spoelstra said. ¡§He¡¦s been an anchor. Everybody knows that¡¦s been around our team is he¡¦s been a major component.¡¨

Expect to see more battles tonight if Bosh returns to action and see more physical play from both teams. This is arguably the biggest game in the whole series, unless there is a game seven. Fans will see tonight who comes out on top.