NBA Playoffs 2012: Celtics Resemble 2010 Team with Game 5 Win over Heat



Let's backtrack two years.

The Boston Celtics went into Cleveland and thoroughly decimated LeBron James' Cavaliers in Game 5 to take a 3-2 lead in their Eastern Conference Semifinal matchup. The Celtics would go on to close out James and company in Boston in Game 6.

Alright. Now let's fast forward back to the present day.

After falling behind 2-0 in the Eastern Conference Finals to the Miami Heat, the C's have now won three straight¡Xtheir most recent win a 94-90 triumph over James' Heat in Miami to take a 3-2 series lead. Once again, the Celtics will have a chance to finish James off in Game 6 in Boston on Thursday night.

If this isn't bringing back memories of Boston's 2010 playoff run, nothing will. Yes, the roster is very different¡Xas are the opponents¡Xbut the similarities are uncanny.

In 2010, the Celtics were counted out. They were deemed too old. It was said that there was no way they could deal with the Cavaliers or the Orlando Magic in the postseason.

In 2012, it has been more of the same. No one other than Boston fans themselves gave the C's a chance, and even they were¡Xfor the most part¡Xready to accept defeat. This time around, though, the Celtics have dealt with a devastating rash of injuries. They have dealt with unbridled inconsistency. They have dealt with trade rumors swirling around nearly every key member of their team, from the mercurial Rajon Rondo to the green-blooded Paul Pierce.

All of that, and here Boston is, one win away from advancing to its third NBA Finals in the Big Three era.

The Celtics' win in Game 5 effectively encapsulated Boston's season in a 48-minute frame. The C's came out of the gates slow, flat and uninspired, and they quickly found themselves down 13 early in the second quarter. Chris Bosh had returned for the Heat, and he immediately completed a three-point play. James had it going early on. Dwyane Wade scored seven early in the first quarter. It wasn't looking good for Doc Rivers' grizzled squad.

Did you count the Celtics out when it was 31-18 in the second quarter? If you did, how dare you. Have you not been watching this team all year long?

Behind a spectacular 26-point, 11-rebound performance from Kevin Garnett¡Xa performance that also included two ferocious blocks on James¡Xand some extremely clutch shooting from Mickael Pietrus late in the game, the C's rallied, weathering every storm and countering every punch Miami threw at them.

The game went down to the wire, where Boston finished the contest by hitting 11 straight free throws, including two from Garnett (who else?) to seal it with 8.8 seconds left. While the Heat walked off the floor of AmericanAirlines Arena wondering where the series had gone, the Celtics walked off knowing that they now have Miami clinging on the ropes for dear life.

Garnett was nothing short of sensational tonight. After shooting only 4-of-10 in the first half, he took over late, scoring 18 points in the final 24 minutes. Many of his points came on absolutely vicious dunks (including a poster on James Jones) that probably made viewers wonder if the 2004 K.G. had taken the floor instead of the 2012 version.

Pietrus was incredible as well. His two threes in the fourth quarter, especially the one that put Boston up 85-83 with just over two minutes to go, were unbelievably vital. Also, Paul Pierce lived up to his nickname, as The Truth drilled a cold-blooded three in the face of James to put the Celtics up four with 52 seconds left.

The remarkable season for the C's continues. It is blatantly obvious that Garnett, Pierce and Ray Allen know that this is their last run together. Their level of play indicates that. They have been counted out so many times, and each and every time, they bounce back. It really is unbelievable. This may be the most mentally tough team I have ever seen. They just keep coming.

Now, Boston has a chance to finish off the hated Heat in Game 6, and you can be sure that the atmosphere at TD Garden will be electric.

The 2010 Celtics closed out LeBron's Cavaliers at home in Game 6. Will they do the same thing to LeBron's Heat in 2012?
