Celtics intend to bring a sense of urgency to Game 6

The Celtics [team stats] have taken control of the Eastern Conference finals with three straight wins and have an opportunity to advance to the NBA Finals with a win in Game 6 tomorrow night at home. While most outsiders are placing all of the pressure on the Heat, Celtics coach Doc Rivers said his team is just as desperate for a win.

"We¡¦re trying to win too, and I¡¦ve always said that," Rivers said. "I don¡¦t really prescribe to that theory that one team has more pressure than the other team. We want to win just like them. We have guys who are at the end of their careers and our sense of urgency, I think at times, may be greater than theirs. If not greater, then the same. I think the pressure is in different ways. They¡¦re put under pressure maybe because of the urgency to get this right with this group. We¡¦re put under pressure because our window is closing.¡¨

The Celtics have had a surprising inability to close out teams in their first attempt during this latest Big 3 era. Twice in the last three years they've blown 3-2 series leads (2009 Eastern Conference semifinals, 2010 Finals), a fact that isn't lost on this group.

¡§We better know that," Rivers said. "We have one home game left and that¡¦s it in this series and we have to understand that and we have to come with that sense of urgency. I think our guys get that. They know what¡¦s at stake and so does Miami.¡¨

The Celtics aren't allowing themselves to think about having two shots to close out this series. They want no part of a Game 7 in Miami on Saturday and understand that their best chance will come tomorrow night at home.

¡§We always have to do that," Rivers said of treating tomorrow like a Game 7. "I think when you get to the playoffs and you get to 2-2, I think from that point on, every game is Game 7. Game 5, Game 6, Game 7 ¡V I think that¡¦s how you have to look at them.¡¨

Rivers clearly is confident about heading into such an important game with this group of players, who have overcome a great deal of adversity to reach this point.

¡§I just think we¡¦re resilient; we¡¦ve been all year," Rivers said. "We¡¦ve lost games, we¡¦ve won games, but we rarely go away. We just kind of hang in there. Our guys feel very good down the stretch of games because they¡¦ve been together. We didn¡¦t play well last night and if we don¡¦t play better tomorrow night, we¡¦re not going to win. And I think our guys understand that. Having said that, the fact is that we didn¡¦t play well, we hung in there long enough, I think our defense gave us a chance to win the game, and we won it at the end."

--Rivers provided injury updates on Ray Allen and Rajon Rondo [stats]. Allen left the bench briefly during the game to get attention from the training staff on his injured ankle, but returned and played the final nine minutes, making a pair of clutch free throws late.

¡§He¡¦ll be fine. He just said it locked on him again," Rivers said. "That¡¦s happened a couple of times. He needed our team doctor to maneuver it, I guess it would almost be kind of like to unhinge it so he can run again.¡¨

Rondo appeared to injure his left arm/elbow while diving for a loose ball in the first quarter. He was icing his arm on the bench and returned in the second quarter with a sleeve on his left arm.

¡§I don¡¦t know what happened there," Rivers said. "I think he got scratched or cut. I¡¦m not even sure. You¡¦ve been around me, I pay zero attention to injuries, never ask about them, I don¡¦t want to know about them.¡¨