Heat: Chris Bosh will play more in Game 6 vs. Celtics

MIAMI -- The Miami Heat's season is on the line and Chris Bosh said Wednesday that he is ready for more time.

On Tuesday, Bosh returned to play in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference finals after being sidelined for three weeks and missing nine games with an abdominal strain. He played 14 minutes off the bench, scoring 9 points and grabbing 7 rebounds while shooting 3 for 8.

After practice on Wednesday, Heat coach Erik Spoelstra did not rule out starting Bosh in Game 6 against the Boston Celtics at TD Garden on Thursday night. The Celtics lead the Heat in the series 3-2.

"I don't know," Spoelstra said. "I'm still going through that thought process. But I think he'll be able to handle a bigger load of minutes. And it would be based more on how he feels during the game."

By contrast, Spoelstra told reporters during his pregame comments on Tuesday that Bosh would not start Game 5.

Bosh's Game 5 return was highlighted by a standing ovation when he checked in midway through the first quarter and an and-one lay-up over Celtics forward Kevin Garnett that he punctuated with a loud scream in the direction of the stands. Bosh, though, was also part of a unit that conceded a large run late in the third quarter and he didn't move with his usual quickness and agility, which is to be expected. At the same time, he didn't necessarily look like he was playing injured, either. In total, his play was somewhere in the middle between All-Star and liability.

"My timing is off a little bit," he admitted. "I made some mistakes [on defense] that I can definitely put in the back of my mind for tomorrow. But for the most part, I was just trying to stay alert, be in the right spots. ... I'll play the way I'm supposed to on defense and on offense and just be solid on both ends."
Asked to measure his health on the day after his first game action in more than three weeks, Bosh smiled and placed himself at "99 [percent]," saying he could play on Thursday with "no limitations." He also noted that he was not dealing with any lingering pain.

"There's going to be some regular soreness after the game, which I'm used to," Bosh said. "It's nothing major. Everybody feels it after every game. So I consider myself a lucky guy, and I'll be ready for [Thursday]."

A return to the starting lineup seems like a no-brainer if you simply go off Bosh's self-diagnosis, but he opted for the politically correct answer when asked if he wanted to start.

"I just want to play," he said. "It doesn't matter to me. I think we feel confident in whoever we put out there. And no matter what the rotation is and what the lineup, we're good enough to get the job done."

In Game 5, Spoelstra started guards Mario Chalmers and Dwyane Wade along with forwards LeBron James, Shane Battier and Udonis Haslem, his third starting five of the series. Using Bosh off the bench allowed his first half minutes to come against Boston's weaker reserve big men rather than Garnett, who has been dominant throughout the series.

But most of the playing time discussion focused on the end of Game 5 rather than the beginning. Spoelstra opted to sit Bosh for the entire fourth quarter, saying after the game that it wouldn't have been "fair" to Bosh to play him in that situation after so much time off.

"Those are the decisions you have to make as a head coach," Spoelstra said Wednesday. "I know after the fact those can always be second-guessed. But we're treading in kind of new waters right now, and he had been out quite a while. But he'll play more tomorrow night."

For his part, Bosh said during his postgame comments that he would have been ready if called upon, a sentiment he repeated on Wednesday when asked if it had been frustrating to watch from the sidelines as his teammates lost their third game in a row.

"It's not frustrating at all," he said. "We had the right guys in at the right time. I can't win everything in my first game back. I felt like I had more to give. But we went with our guys who have been getting the job done for the past two series. So hopefully I'll be able to contribute a little bit more."

James shared those hopes.

"We're going to have to have him out there on the court," he said. "I think he played great in his minutes he had last night. 14 minutes, 9 and 7, that's really good production. The fact that we're a whole finally for a game that means a lot to us all, it should help us."