Celtics Cannot Afford Carbon Copy of Game 1: A Fan's Preview

The Philadelphia 76ers were expected to put up less of a fight against the Miami Heat than the Boston Celtics were. Yet Sixers fans like myself still have to wonder if Philadelphia could have played any worse than Boston did against Miami in Game 1 on May 28. However, the Celtics are supposed to have the experience and championship grit to bounce back from losses like that - and they pretty much have to in order to stay alive in this series.

Perhaps the Celtics won't be completely dead if they lose Game 2 to the Heat on May 30 and fall down by 2-0 in the conference finals. Yet if Boston doesn't even put up more of a fight than it did for most of Game 1, then any comeback hopes will look even slimmer.

The Celtics were always expected to be too worn out to win Game 1 after being pushed so long by the Sixers. But now they don't have that handy excuse for Game 2, so it will be all on them to bounce back and steal the home court advantage from the Heat. If they can do that, then perhaps these conference finals won't be a Miami coronation and warm-up for the NBA Finals after all.

Yet the Heat can pretty much consider this series as practice if the Celtics keep playing like they did in the first, third and fourth quarters of Game 1. With the exception of a 35-point second quarter, Boston was thoroughly inadequate on offense and didn't have enough defense to contain LeBron James and Dwayne Wade. If that same thing happens in the rematch, then it will be hard to imagine the Celtics winning just one game the rest of the way.

Even a down-to-the-wire loss would be better for Boston than a blowout, despite the same result of a 0-2 hole. But the Celtics have to start making up ground to the Heat in some way, if they hope to stretch this series out and eventually take control.

Fortunately, Miami has tended to slip up in this situation before, as it blew Game 2 to the Dallas Mavericks in last year's finals and also coughed up Game 2 at home to the Indiana Pacers in the last round. The Heat often make things more difficult than they have any right to be, so the Celtics have to hope that this trend continues.

If Miami doesn't shoot itself in the foot, then it is virtually unstoppable, at least against decided underdogs like Boston. But if the Heat play less efficient basketball than they did in Game 1, and if the Celtics rediscover their touch, then this series might get a little interesting after all.

Yet if it is a carbon copy of the series opener, then this could be the last home game for the Heat until Game 3 of the NBA Finals - and the Celtics' last road game in the Big Three/Four era. 