Heat at Celtics (Game 6) | Thu., June 7, 2012

Read more here: http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/06/08/2838577/heat-at-celtics-game-6-thu-june.html#storylink=cpy

By Gary Dzen, Boston.com Staff

LeBron James scored 45 points as the Heat prevented a Garden party and won Game 6, 98-79, to force the Eastern Conference Finals back to Miami.

"Now we have a series," said Heat coach Erik Spoelstra. "That's what everybody wants, right?"

James picked apart the Celtics with deadly accuracy and a killer instinct, hitting 19 of 26 shots from the floor. With the high point total, his 15 rebounds and 5 assists always seemed like an afterthought.

"He set the tone for their whole team," said Celtics coach Doc Rivers. "I thought he gave them comfort in every way he played tonight."

James stepped up big for the Heat when their season was on the line and they needed him most. He played 44 minutes, sitting down only when the game was already in hand.

"I think what fuels him is this moment," said Spoelstra. "He was absolutely fearless tonight. And it was contagious. The way he approached the last 48 hours. Not only LeBron, it wasn't the end of the world. Nobody likes getting dirt thrown on your face before you're dead."

James was the biggest problem for the Celtics, but their issues didn't end with the Heat superstar. The Celtics were turnover-happy (nine) in the first half. Paul Pierce was 4 of 18 from the floor in the game. The Boston bench contributed just 2 points -- a tip-in by Mickael Pietrus -- until garbage time, when the Celtics were down by so much that their bench had been emptied.

Rajon Rondo was also a disappointment, and that might seem contradictory given his 21 points and 10 assists. But this wasn't the kind of dominant performance we've come to expect from Rondo in the playoffs. He countered those 10 assists with seven turnovers, an issue front and center in the Celtics' offensive troubles to start the game.

"We have to get to the second and third option, and sometimes the fourth option," said Ray Allen.

Rivers had been waiting all series for his team to turn in a complete performance from start to finish; he knew after the first quarter that Thursday night wasn't going to be it. The Celtics came out flat in Game 6, making 41 percent of their field goals in the first quarter. A more disturbing statistic was Boston's five team turnovers to just one assist. James scored 14 points in the first quarter as Miami went on a 10-0 run after Kevin Garnett went to the bench.

James continue to put up points in the second quarter, and he was joined in a duel of sorts by Rondo. James had 30 points by halftime to Rondo's 19, but Rondo wasn't perfect despite his scoring, countering five assists with five turnovers.