Game 6: Five things to watch

On the subject of things to watch for, how many honestly thought a Celtics [team stats] game on June 7 would be one of them? But here, against the predictions of most, are the Celts, preparing for a Game 6 against the high and mighty Heat with a chance to play their way into the championship round. Here are five keys that will help decide whether they will:

SO EVERYBODY JUST FOLLOW ME, ¡¦CAUSE WE NEED A LITTLE CONTROVERSY

In addition to stirring the series with his comments, Rajon Rondo [stats] has managed to become a perfectly harmonious combination of Arthur Fiedler and Eminem (Arinar?). He not only conducts the Celtic symphony, he occasionally grabs the microphone and belts out tunes that only he can understand ¡X until they wind up on the scoreboard. It is instructive to note that Rondo made just 3-of-15 shots in Game 5 and still made some of the night¡¦s most critical plays. The Celts would rather he get back on a first-name basis with the basket in this one, and if he does it could be the additional offensive counterpoint they need to put them over the top.

THIS IS OURSELVES UNDER PRESSURE

The Celtics want to win this series. Miami is supposed to win this series. Big difference. The team less encumbered by the weight of expectation can generally be more free and easy, while the club that had a coronation in 2010 before it had ever won a single game together could easily begin dancing to the ¡§Tighten Up¡¨ if its shots begin clanging off the Garden rims. That same emotion ¡X that chilling fear of losing ¡X also could propel the Heat to a wire-to-wire effort that leaves the Celtics gasping in their wake. But if Garnett and his friends can put together some consecutive defensive stops, the bucket might begin to appear a little smaller to the visitors.

A ONE-WAY TICKET BACK TO THE LIFE HE ONCE KNEW

It¡¦s been nothing short of amazing the way Kevin (The Big Ticket) Garnett has turned back the clock and is playing his best basketball in years at the age of 36. And no question the Celtics will need another order of his inside scoring and intensity if they are to close out the series and punch their ticket to the NBA Finals tonight. Keep an eye on Garnett early. No doubt he will go through his pre-tipoff ritual of communing with the basket support on the Celtic end of the floor. If he pulls a George ¡§The Animal¡¨ Steele maneuver and takes a bite out of the padding, Doc Rivers can start working on his Finals game plan.

CALL FOR THE CAPTAIN ASHORE

We know that Kevin Garnett needs to have a big game inside and that Rajon Rondo needs to be, well, Rajon Rondo. But don¡¦t you just have the feeling this is going to come down to Paul Pierce [stats] with the ball in his hands for major possessions in the fourth quarter? Pierce has been fighting through knee problems, but he¡¦s seemingly reached a point of detente with the pain, and he managed to put a hurt on the Heat with eight of his 19 points (including a killer 3) in the fourth quarter Tuesday. It is fair to expect him to rise again to an occasion with which he has become so familiar.

GET BACK, GET BACK, GET BACK TO WHERE YOU ONCE BELONGED...

Watch what happens to the Heat after they miss a shot. Quite inexplicably, this athletically gifted team of defensive stoppers sometimes doesn¡¦t get back quickly to cover the Celtics. Rajon Rondo may not have been tactful, but he was absolutely correct when at halftime of Game 4 he called the Floridians out for ¡§complaining and crying to the referees in transition.¡¨ It¡¦s clear Miami believes it should be disposing of the Celtics more easily, and the frustration is manifesting itself in ways that would drive a youth league coach to distraction. It will, thus, be interesting to see how the Heat react when the Celts make a run. Their body language could speak volumes.