Heat, James Stun Celtics with Game 6 Resurrection: A Fan's Outlook

The Philadelphia 76ers didn't get to face the Miami Heat in the conference finals, although Sixers fans like myself wished otherwise. For that matter, Heat fans have also likely wished that the Sixers were able to get past the Boston Celtics, considering how the Eastern Conference Finals have gone. As a result, if the Heat completed their collapse by losing Game 6 and the series to the Celtics on June 7, it could have been the end of the Big Three era.

Yet instead of a Big Three in Game 6, there was only a Big One in LeBron James - which was a recipe for disaster for Miami during much of this series. But it was less so when James actually made all his shots and blew out the Celtics so decisively, he didn't need to shoot with the game on the line. Since the Heat won by 98-79, got 45 points from James in the meantime and got to go back to Miami for Game 7, those questions were put on the backburner for once.

The resurrection of James and the Heat didn't look like anything special early on. While James could hardly miss to start Game 6 and Miami got a quick double digit lead, this was exactly how Game 5 started on June 5. It was still easy to believe that after the Celtics got going - which seemed inevitable since this was a close out game at home - and James started missing, he and the Heat would fall apart one more time.

But unlike in Game 5, the Celtics couldn't close their deficit to just two points at the half, didn't get a late second quarter run - and didn't stop James from making shots. In fact, he didn't stop until he had 30 points at halftime and lifted the Heat to an 11 point lead after 24 minutes. However, since James and the Heat were approaching their least favorite part of the game - the second half - a collapse would seemingly have to take place then.

Yet for once, when the Heat and James were on fire, they stayed that way for 48 full minutes. It helped that Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce never got going and that Rajon Rondo cooled off after his own hot first half. But James did not cool off, only stopping at 45 points because even the Heat were too far ahead in the fourth quarter to crumble.

After Game 5, James was compared to Wilt Chamberlain by CBS Sports' Ray Ratto because he so rarely won the big game as well. But after Game 6, the James/Chamberlain comparisons were active because James became the first player to get 45 points, 15 rebounds and five assists in a playoff game since 'Wilt the Stilt' in 1964.

No one saw that dominance coming, especially since this night was supposed to finish the destruction of James' legacy and the Heat franchise as a whole. Yet the Celtics not only didn't kill them off, they suddenly look ill equipped to kill them again in a Game 7.

Boston is supposed to have the team and the stars that never dies and always comes back from adversity. Instead the roles reversed at the absolute worse time, and now the fear is that James and Miami will not revert back to their old soft form - at least in this series. 