Why Saudis want oil in check

As members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meet in Vienna Wednesday to discuss oil output policy, leader Saudi Arabia is expected to try hard to push oil prices below US$100.

The kingdom has talked about raising its output sharply starting this month by more than 500,000 barrels a day, regardless of what the rest of OPEC decides. It is also expected to favour a formal output increase after members informally exceeded their targets.

Saudi Arabia isn¡¦t just being nice to consumers. It wants to soften prices to protect its market ¡X the higher the prices, the more consumers shift away from oil, either by cutting energy use or moving to other energy sources. It¡¦s also worried that high oil prices are standing in the way of a robust global recovery.

By unilaterally increasing production, Saudi Arabia is taking a soft approach to managing prices, said Judith Dwarkin, chief economist at Ross Smith Energy Group in Calgary.

¡§That is better than risking another bull run,¡¨ she said.

How much sway will Saudi Arabia have?

Not as much as it used to. Saudi Arabia, the world¡¦s second-largest oil producer, was once a market force. It¡¦s now a market factor, and there are many more at play today.

Tuesday¡¦s market response is telling. Oil prices rose on speculation that an increase in OPEC production quotas will reduce spare capacity and cause tight supplies when demand rebounds, which is probably the opposite of what Saudi Arabia was hoping to achieve.

The reaction is aligned with the views of major Wall Street firms. Wall Street powerhouse Goldman Sachs is betting oil prices are returning to US$140 a barrel by the end of 2012 as loss of Libya¡¦s 1.5-million barrels a day exhausts OPEC¡¦s spare capacity by early 2012.

The reality is that Middle East conflict remains a worry and smooth talking by the kingdom, itself a potential hotbed, doesn¡¦t take it away.

The risk premium that appeared at the beginning of the year is ebbing and flowing based on the intensity of hostilities in Libya, Yemen and Syria.

The weaker U.S. currency, one of the engines of oil price growth because oil is priced in dollars, was also behind higher prices for Brent crude Tuesday.

Meanwhile, world demand is rising. The U.S. Energy Department said Tuesday global oil demand will grow by 2%, or 1.7 million barrels a day, this year to a record 88.43 million barrels a day, led by a need for higher electricity generation in the Mideast, Japan and China.

Politics within OPEC itself could also be bullish for oil prices. Some members, such as Iran and Venezuela, like prices the way they are.

¡§In my opinion the current level is not too high,¡¨ Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul-Kareem Luaibi said of US$114 Brent. ¡§Recent indications from the oil market as far as the stocks and supplies is good ¡X there is good supply.¡¨

It¡¦s one of the reasons Ralph Glass, vice-president of operations at AJM Petroleum Consultants in Calgary, isn¡¦t changing his oil price outlook of a flat US$100 a barrel, regardless of what Saudi Arabia does.

OPEC members ¡§have committed to a lot of internal programs that fundamentally need that kind of price to sustain them,¡¨ he said.

It¡¦s noteworthy that the cost of producing oil in places such as Canada¡¦s oil sands is increasing as oil field inflation returns, and that will support higher oil prices.

What could push down prices? Saudi¡¦s output increase could satisfy the market, the risk premium could subside if conflict is resolved, the market believes that there is enough spare capacity to overcome supply losses and the world economy remains soft.