Iraq may cut oil output capacity goal -minister

VIENNA/BAGHDAD, June 7 (Reuters) - Iraq is considering cutting its ambitious goal to expand oil output capacity to 12 million barrels per day, and could renegotiate deals with global oil companies, its oil minister said on Tuesday.

Baghdad, which needs cash to rebuild its war-battered infrastructure, is under pressure to reopen negotiations with oil firms and abandon the 12 million bpd target that would allow it to rival OPEC's top producer Saudi Arabia.

The oil ministry has asked its consultants to draw up a plan with a lower output level and longer timeframe than before, meaning the periods agreed with firms to reach output targets could be extended to 13 to 14 years from six to seven years under existing contracts, Minister Abdul-Kareem Luaibi said.

"We are studying several scenarios for more economic production rates, we can reduce the production and increase the period to reach the plateau targets," Luaibi told reporters in Vienna.

"For example, instead of producing 12 million bpd for 7 years, we can produce 8 million bpd for 13 or 14 years."

Iraq signed a series of deals with international oil firms, after two bidding rounds in 2009, to try to boost its output capacity to 12 million bpd by 2017 from around 2.7 million bpd currently.

Since then many analysts have questioned whether the country can achieve the 12 million bpd target in the foreseeable future because of infrastructure constraints. They say 6 million-7 million bpd is a more realistic goal.

Luaibi said the ministry had yet to approach oil companies over renegotiation, which would be done after the ministry completes a final plan with its consultants.

"In general, the oil companies will not be hurt ... We can increase the period to reach the plateau targets to 13-14 years," he said.

But the contracts are production driven, and oil companies get fees for each barrel produced. Any deep cut to Iraq's overall target could mean the deals could need to be adjusted to accommodate lower production plateaus, which would mean lower returns for oil companies in the short term.

"The point about increasing the plateau period, is that sufficient to compensate the IOCs (international oil companies) for lower production? We have to wait and see," said one oil executive working in Iraq.

"Yes, potentially, it gives the same number of barrels -- lower plateau but longer years -- but money has time value... It is not a very simple and straight forward calculation."

COMPANIES TO GET HIGHER FEES?

Oil companies might press Iraq to raise remuneration fees or slash investment obligations alongside production targets, analysts and oil officials say.

Iraq, which relies on oil for 95 percent of its revenues, arrived at its ambitious capacity target by adding up the individual field production plateaus, which oil companies were committed to reach in six to seven years' time.

To achieve their high output targets, the firms and Iraq will need to invest billions of dollars in water injection schemes and building storage tanks and export terminals. Foreign companies are expected to invest more than $150 billion in the fields they are developing.

"Iraq has finally recognised the need to reconsider the contracts in the best interest of the Iraqi government while at the same time not harming the international investors," the oil executive sid after Luaibi's comments.

Lowering output targets would in the short term mean savings for Iraq, which is short of cash, as it would cut investments that oil companies will need to recover from the Iraqi government before 2017.

Iraq has been reluctant to back down from its target, which many saw as a political posture kept during an election last year and a way to flex its muscle among its OPEC peers.

Openly accepting a much lower target highlights the challenges facing Iraq and means it renouncing for the moment its ambition to rival Saudi Arabia as a swing producer, said Samuel Ciszuk of IHS in a research note.

"Few if any forecaster, even outside of the energy industry, has really planned for Iraq to come anywhere near its 12 million bpd production target, meaning that on the face of it the Iraqi target slash should have few implications on the markets," said Ciszuk. 