As Oil Demand Rises and Unrest Continues, OPEC¡¦s Power Over Prices Has Limits

As OPEC ministers prepare to meet Wednesday for the first time since political turmoil spread across North Africa and the Middle East, there are signs that Saudi Arabia and other oil producers are beginning to raise production modestly to help meet global demand.

But with China¡¦s appetite for energy continuing to grow and political turbulence still rumbling across the world¡¦s primary oil-producing region, oil experts say there is only so much that OPEC, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, can do to ease prices.

The 12-nation organization has not changed its production quotas since December 2008, when it moved to cut output to put a floor on slumping prices at the outset of the recession. The quotas helped keep world oil prices moderate and stable through 2009 and early 2010, although over time Iran and other members sporadically increased production. But in the last year, prices have leapt by more than 35 percent, in large part because of disruptions in Libya and the threat of more unrest in other producing countries.

Now, officials from Saudi Arabia and Iran ¡X the two OPEC production giants often in disagreement when it comes to price policy ¡X are hinting that producers should be willing to step up output again.

¡§OPEC is trying to compensate part of the shortage of supply of crude and create a balance in the market,¡¨ Iran¡¦s OPEC governor, Mohammad Ali Khatibi, recently told the semiofficial Mehr news agency. Observers viewed the comment as moderate in comparison with the usual Iranian calls for higher prices.

In recent weeks, Saudi Arabia has stepped up production by an estimated 200,000 barrels a day, or roughly 2 percent, after lowering exports in April. The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, recently suggested that OPEC would raise output to meet any increase in global demand, although a formal change in the allotment of production quotas for each member is still in doubt.

The only fireworks at the meeting are likely to be over possible competing Libyan delegations. The government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi says it will send a representative, even though its top oil official, Shukri Ghanem, recently defected and some OPEC members are actively supporting Libyan rebels.

The global market is not short of oil, but inventories are dropping around the world and leading benchmark prices continue to hover at or above $100 a barrel.

The International Energy Agency, the advisory organization for industrial countries, has appealed to OPEC to raise production, going so far as to hint that Western countries could release strategic reserves onto the market if needed to stem rising prices.

¡§Oil prices are hurting the economy,¡¨ said Fatih Birol, the agency¡¦s chief economist. ¡§I hope to see more oil in the markets soon.¡¨

But OPEC¡¦s ability to meet the growing demand appears to be limited. Libya¡¦s 1.3 million barrels of daily oil exports appear to be lost for as long as the civil war grinds on. Production in Venezuela has been diminishing for years. And the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait have already increased production so much that they have limited spare capacity left.

That leaves Saudi Arabia¡¦s estimated spare capacity of 2.5 million to 3 million barrels a day as the sole significant source for increased OPEC production. Much of that oil, however, would be less-desirable heavy crude that many refineries cannot easily handle.

¡§OPEC has limited options,¡¨ said David L. Goldwyn, until recently the State Department¡¦s coordinator for international energy affairs. ¡§The more Saudi Arabia increases production, the less reserved spare capacity exists. Less available spare capacity also makes markets nervous and can defeat the benefits of a production increase.¡¨

Oil prices have eased in recent weeks amid more signs of global economic weakness and relative calm in Saudi Arabia, Algeria and other important producers.

But the region is far from stable. Unrest in the Persian Gulf nation of Bahrain has sharpened sectarian divisions in Iraq, and Iraqi oil installations have experienced attacks in recent months. Syria¡¦s 150,000 barrels a day of oil exports are in jeopardy because of spreading violence.

Yemen¡¦s 260,000 barrels a day of production has been virtually halted because of strikes and pipeline bombings. A complete breakdown of order will make it more likely that the country could serve as a base for terrorist attacks on oil facilities in neighboring Saudi Arabia or on the nearby Bab el Mandeb shipping lane, through which an estimated 3.7 million barrels a day of oil passes, according to Middle East experts.

¡§Yemen is a wild card,¡¨ said Helima L. Croft, senior geopolitical strategist at Barclays Capital. ¡§It could be the failed state in the middle of the gulf and it threatens the stability of the largest oil producer, Saudi Arabia.¡¨ 