OIL FUTURES: Crude Settles -1.3% At $99.01; OPEC Rise Expected

NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Crude oil futures dropped 1.3% Monday to settle below $100 a barrel as traders expect OPEC to lift output at talks beginning Wednesday.

All eyes are on Vienna, where the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is meeting against the backdrop of triple-digit oil prices and pressure from consumer countries to increase supplies. Delegates said OPEC may at least consider raising its outdated production ceiling, in place since 2008, to legitimize 1.5 million barrels a day of output above the agreed level.

Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the energy policy advisor for the western industrial nations, said Monday OPEC needs to increase the volume of oil it supplies to the market, not just legitimize current overproduction.. The IEA for weeks has been sounding a warning that rising oil prices "at this stage of the economic cycle risk derailing the global economic recovery," and said there is a "clear, urgent need" for more oil.

Light, sweet crude oil for July delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $99.01 a barrel, down $1.21. That is the first settlement below $100 since May 24.

OPEC's de facto leader, Ali Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, told a Saudi newspaper it is too early to say if OPEC will raise the ceiling this week.

Iran, OPEC's second-biggest oil producer, which holds OPEC's rotating presidency, has said the market is adequately supplied and current prices are fair, which could lead to friction and volatile headline-based trading this week, market players said.

But J.P. Morgan analysts led by Lawrence Eagles said in a note that higher production--sanctioned by the group or otherwise--is the likely results of the meeting. "At the end of the day.. those that can raise output will do so, regardless of a collective OPEC decision," he said.

Matt Smith, oil analyst at Summit Energy in Louisville, said, "More supply brought to market obviously would be bearish for prices," which have been under pressure from sluggish U.S. economic data and little year-on-year growth in U.S. oil demand.

Traders have said that while higher OPEC output would pressure prices now, rising global demand later in the year will keep prices from collapsing, barring a return to global recession.

Prices lost a potential prop after reversal of government decision on Sunday allowed TransCanada Corp. (TRP, TRP.T) to restart its Keystone pipeline, which ships nearly 600,000 barrels a day of crude to the U.S. Midwest. The pipeline was shut since May 29 after the second of two modest oil spills in recent weeks and is expected to ramp up to normal operations within a few days.

Meantime, analysts expect weekly U.S. oil inventory data to show crude stocks posted a modest 900,000-barrel decline from a week ago, when stocks reached a 21-year high for the end of May.

Data for the week ended June 3 from the federal Energy Information Administration, the statistical and analytical wing of the U.S. Energy Department, is scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. EDT on Wednesday. The American Petroleum Institute, an industry trade association, releases its figures for the same period at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Tuesday.

The data are also expected to show a modest drop in gasoline inventories, a small rise in distillate stocks [diesel/heating oil], which have risen counter-seasonally for the past eight weeks. Refiners are expected to have trimmed operations slightly in the week.

Traders continued to nervously watch the situation in Yemen, where a fragile cease-fire negotiated with rebels over the weekend appeared to be in jeopardy. Yemen isn't a major oil producer, with output cut to170,000 barrels a day from 230,000 barrels a day in 2010, due to rebellion aimed at ousting long-time President Ali Abdullah Saleh.

Saleh was seriously injured in an attack Friday on the presidential palace and fled to Saudi Arabia for medical treatment, with many analysts believing it unlikely that he would return to Yemen, as the Saudis and their Gulf allies have been pressing him to accept terms for handing over power. But Yemeni officials who support Saleh said he would return, as three rebels were reportedly killed by forces loyal to the president.

Yemen sits at the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula and on the Bab el-Mendab waterway, through which passes some 3.5 million barrels a day of crude, or about 4% of the world's daily consumption of 88 million barrels a day.

July-delivery reformulated gasoline blendstock futures fell 4.32 cents, to $2.9499 a gallon, the lowest level since May 23.

Heating oil futures shed 3.93 cents, to $3.0174 a gallon, the lowest price since May 27.

More information on settlements and highs and lows for futures on Nymex and ICE platforms can be found by searching for the following headlines:

 
Nymex Light Crude Oil Close 
Nymex Harbor RBOB Gasoline Close 
Nymex Heating Oil Close 
ICE Brent Crude Oil Close 
ICE Gas Oil Close 
 

-By David Bird, Dow Jones Newswires; 212-416-2141; david.bird@dowjones.com

(adds ICE Brent crude price in fourth paragraph.)

   By David Bird 
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 
 

NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Crude-oil futures dropped 1.3% Monday to settle below $100 a barrel as traders expect OPEC to lift output at talks beginning Wednesday.

All eyes are on Vienna, where the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is meeting against the backdrop of triple-digit oil prices and pressure from consumer countries to increase supplies. Delegates said OPEC may at least consider raising its outdated production ceiling, in place since 2008, to legitimize 1.5 million barrels a day of output above the agreed level.

Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the energy-policy adviser for the western industrial nations, said Monday OPEC needs to increase the volume of oil it supplies to the market, not just legitimize current overproduction. The IEA for weeks has been sounding a warning that rising oil prices "at this stage of the economic cycle risk derailing the global-economic recovery," and said there is a "clear, urgent need" for more oil.

Light, sweet crude oil for July delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $99.01 a barrel, down $1.21. That is the first settlement below $100 since May 24 and the lowest price since May 21. ICE Brent crude for July delivery settled 1.2%, or $1.36 lower, at $114.48 a barrel, the lowest price since May 24.

OPEC's de facto leader, Ali Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, told a Saudi newspaper it is too early to say if OPEC will raise the ceiling this week.

Iran, OPEC's second-biggest oil producer, which holds OPEC's rotating presidency, has said the market is adequately supplied and current prices are fair, which could lead to friction and volatile headline-based trading this week, market players said.

But J.P. Morgan analysts led by Lawrence Eagles said in a note that higher production--sanctioned by the group or otherwise--is the likely results of the meeting. "At the end of the day, those that can raise output will do so, regardless of a collective OPEC decision," he said.

Matt Smith, oil analyst at Summit Energy in Louisville, said, "More supply brought to market obviously would be bearish for prices," which have been under pressure from sluggish U.S. economic data and little year-on-year growth in U.S. oil demand.

Traders have said that while higher OPEC output would pressure prices now, rising global demand later in the year will keep prices from collapsing, barring a return to global recession.

Prices lost a potential prop after reversal of government decision on Sunday allowed TransCanada Corp. (TRP, TRP.T) to restart its Keystone pipeline, which ships nearly 600,000 barrels a day of crude oil to the U.S. Midwest. The pipeline was shut since May 29 after the second of two modest oil spills in recent weeks and is expected to ramp up to normal operations within a few days.

Meantime, analysts expect weekly U.S. oil inventory data to show crude stocks posted a modest 900,000-barrel decline from a week ago, when stocks reached a 21-year high for the end of May.

Data for the week ended June 3 from the federal Energy Information Administration, the statistical and analytical wing of the U.S. Energy Department, are scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. EDT on Wednesday. The American Petroleum Institute, an industry trade association, releases its figures for the same period at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Tuesday.

The data are also expected to show a modest drop in gasoline inventories, a small rise in distillate stocks [diesel/heating oil], which have risen counter-seasonally for the past eight weeks. Refiners are expected to have trimmed operations slightly in the week.

Traders continued to nervously watch the situation in Yemen, where a fragile cease-fire negotiated with rebels over the weekend appeared to be in jeopardy. Yemen isn't a major oil producer, with output cut to 170,000 barrels a day from 230,000 barrels a day in 2010, due to rebellion aimed at ousting long-time President Ali Abdullah Saleh.

Saleh was seriously injured in an attack Friday on the presidential palace and fled to Saudi Arabia for medical treatment, with many analysts believing it unlikely that he would return to Yemen, as the Saudis and their Gulf allies have been pressing him to accept terms for handing over power. But Yemeni officials who support Saleh said he would return, as three rebels were reportedly killed by forces loyal to the president.

Yemen sits at the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula and on the Bab el-Mendab waterway, through which passes some 3.5 million barrels a day of crude oil, or about 4% of the world's daily consumption of 88 million barrels a day.

July-delivery reformulated gasoline-blendstock futures fell 4.32 cents, to $2.9499 a gallon, the lowest level since May 23.

Heating-oil futures shed 3.93 cents, to $3.0174 a gallon, the lowest price since May 27. 