Crude Settles Below $100 

NEW YORK¡XCrude-oil futures settled below $100 a barrel for the first time in almost two weeks as traders positioned themselves for a possible increase in production from OPEC.

All eyes are on Vienna, where the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet Wednesday against the backdrop of triple-digit oil prices and pressure from consumer countries to increase supplies. Delegates said OPEC may at least consider raising its outdated production ceiling, in place since 2008, to legitimize some 1.5 million barrels a day of output above the agreed level.

Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the energy policy adviser for the Western industrial nations, said Monday that OPEC needs to increase the volume of oil it supplies to the market, not just legitimize current overproduction. The IEA for weeks has been sounding a warning that rising oil prices "at this stage of the economic cycle risk derailing the global economic recovery," and said there is a "clear, urgent need" for more oil.

Light, sweet crude oil for July delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $99.01 a barrel, down $1.21 or 1.2%. That is the front-month contract's first settlement below $100 since May 24. 

OPEC's de facto leader, Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, told a Saudi newspaper it is too early to say if OPEC will raise the ceiling this week.

Iran, which holds OPEC's rotating presidency, has said the market is adequately supplied and current prices are fair. The stance of OPEC's second-biggest oil producer could lead to friction and volatile headline-based trading this week, market players said.

But J.P. Morgan analysts led by Lawrence Eagles said in a note that higher production, sanctioned by the group or otherwise, is the likely result of the meeting. "At the end of the day¡Kthose that can raise output will do so, regardless of a collective OPEC decision," he said.

Matt Smith, oil analyst at Summit Energy in Louisville, Ky., said, "More supply brought to market obviously would be bearish for prices," which have been under pressure from sluggish U.S. economic data and little year-on-year growth in U.S. oil demand.

Traders have said that while higher OPEC would pressure prices now, rising global demand later in the year would keep prices from collapsing, without barring a return to global recession.

Prices lost a potential prop after reversal of government decision on Sunday allowed TransCanada Corp. to restart its Keystone pipeline, which ships nearly 600,000 barrels a day of crude to the Midwest. The pipeline has been shut since May 29 after the second of two modest oil spills in recent weeks and is expected to ramp up to normal operations within a few days.

Meantime, analysts expect weekly U.S. oil-inventory data to show crude stocks posted a modest 900,000-barrel decline from a week ago, when stocks reached a 21-year high for the end of May.

Data for the week ended June 3 from the Energy Information Administration, the statistical and analytical wing of the Department of Energy, is scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. Wednesday. The American Petroleum Institute, an industry trade association, releases its figures for the same period at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday.

Traders continued to nervously watch the situation in Yemen, where a fragile cease-fire negotiated with rebels over the weekend appeared to be in jeopardy. Yemen isn't a major oil producer, with output cut to 170,000 barrels a day, from 230,000 barrels a day in 2011, due to rebellion aimed at ousting long-time President Ali Abdullah Saleh.

Mr. Saleh was injured in an attack Friday on the presidential palace and fled to Saudi Arabia for medical treatment, with many analysts believing it unlikely that he would return to Yemen, as the Saudis and their Gulf allies have been pressing him to accept terms for handing over power. But Yemeni officials who support Mr. Saleh said he would return.

Yemen sits at the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula and on the Bab el-Mendab waterway, through which passes some 3.5 million barrels a day of crude, or about 4% of the world's daily consumption of 88 million barrels a day. 