OIL FUTURES: Crude Little Changed Near $100/Bbl Ahead Of OPEC Talks

NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Crude oil futures prices were little changed near $100 a barrel Monday as traders focused on OPEC output policy talks, officially set to begin Wednesday.

The dollar offered little direction, with the euro steady as the foreign exchange market examined the implications of a tentative new financial package for Greece. Dollar-weakness Friday amid talk of the rescue plan helped crude to come back strongly from losses on disappointing U.S. jobs data, and settle at $100 for a seventh consecutive day.

"We expect a holding pattern into mid-week with prices continuing to gravitate toward the $100 mark," said Jim Ritterbusch, head of Ritterbusch and Associates, a Galena, Illinois, advisory firm.

News that TransCanada had restarted its Keystone pipeline, which ships nearly 600,000 barrels a day of crude to the Midwest, helped soften prices. The pipeline was shut since May 29 following the second of two modest oil spills in recent weeks, and is expected to ramp up to normal operations within a few days.

Light, sweet crude oil for July delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was down 34 cents a barrel, at $99.88 a barrel, after an early low of $98.80. July ICE Brent was 47 cents lower at $115.37 a barrel.

All eyes are on Vienna, where the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is meeting against the backdrop of triple digit oil prices and pressure from consumer countries to increase supplies. Delegates said OPEC may at least consider raising its outdated production ceiling, in place since 2008, to legitimize some 1.5 million barrels a day of output above the agreed level.

OPEC's de facto leader, Ali Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, told a Saudi newspaper it is too early to say if OPEC will raise the ceiling this week.

Iran, which holds OPEC's rotating presidency, has said the market is adequately supplied and current prices are fair, which could lead to friction and volatile headline-based trading this week, market players said.

Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the energy policy advisor for the western industrial nations, said Monday OPEC needs to increase the volume of oil it supplies to the market, not just legitimize current overproduction.

"We expect a holding pattern into mid-week with prices continuing to gravitate toward the $100 mark," said Jim Ritterbusch, head of Ritterbusch and Associates, a Galena, Illinois, advisory firm.

July reformulated gasoline blendstock futures rebounded from earlier losses, and were 1.34 cents higher, at $3.0065 a gallon. July heating oil was down 0.4 cent at $3.0527 a gallon. 