Dissent within OPEC cracks facade of unity

VIENNA ¡X OPEC¡¦s stunning admission of major dissent within its ranks has left it reeling and its status as the world¡¦s oil power-broker weakened ¡X perhaps beyond repair.

National interests led to deadlock among the 12 OPEC nations at their latest meeting Wednesday, when Iran and others stymied a bid by Saudi Arabia and its Gulf allies to increase output at a time of world economic weakness.

For most members, common sense dictates that they at least try to work together, meaning that there will be efforts to mend fences in the coming months.

"I think there were some tensions," said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics. "But everyone has to do business and countries have different views on what the future of demand looks like."

Still, OPEC will never be the same. Wednesday¡¦s meeting exposed bickering that member nations usually are at pains to hide and shattered the image held by many that OPEC is a monolith acting with a single will to squeeze an energy hungry world.

If future meetings take place at a less volatile time, the group might again find consensus on what oil prices should be and how much crude to pump to reach that level.

But Wednesday¡¦s meeting revealed an Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries unable to meet the challenges of Mideast unrest and a stubbornly weak world economy that cannot afford pricey crude but nonetheless needs more oil to spark an upswing.

Analysts with decades of attending OPEC meetings said the could not remember such a frank acknowledgment of deadlock from the secretive 51-year-old organization. Some heralded its demise. Others sensed a declaration of oil war by price hawk Iran on oil powerhouse Saudi Arabia ¡X which usually sets OPEC policy ¡X and its U.S. ally.

"There were meetings where OPEC could not come to an agreement on a change of policy, meetings where the wishes of Saudi Arabia where not met," said Olivier Jakob of Petromatrix. "We don¡¦t recall a meeting that just split-up ... followed by all sorts of name calling."

Marco Ostwald of Monument Securities declared OPEC "on the point of break-up," while a research note from Cameron Hanover said the Iran-led opposition to raising output was about "sticking it to the Saudis and psychologically sticking it to the US."

Breaking OPEC¡¦s code of silence, Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi named participants opposed to the Saudi-led drive to lower prices by pumping more crude.

Calling Wednesday¡¦s policy-setting session "one of the worst meetings we¡¦ve ever had," he defiantly underscored the message that OPEC public face of unity was dead ¡X at least for now ¡X serving notice that the Saudis will sell more oil alone if necessary.

The Saudis and the Iranians are frequently at loggerheads over pricing but OPEC usually falls in behind Saudi Arabia, which produces the lion¡¦s share of OPEC output. This time, however, Saudi-Iranian rivalry combined with major political and economic uncertainties to lead to deadlock.

Some OPEC members worry that unrest in Libya and Yemen could spill over to their countries. Mindful of the overthrow of Egypt¡¦s and Tunisia¡¦s rulers, they welcome present prices of $100 a barrel and above as a way to increase social spending and placate restive populations.

At the same time OPEC is already overproducing well above its official quota of nearly 25 million barrels a day. Outside of the Saudis and their three Gulf allies, most members do not have the spare capacity needed to raise output to around a daily 30 million barrels, as sought by Riyadh.

Mideast rivalries between Iran and the Saudis that go beyond OPEC also played a hand in cracking the facade of OPEC unity.