OPEC meeting ends without deal

VIENNA ¡X OPEC failed to agree on crude production for the first time in at least 20 years after six countries opposed a Saudi Arabian push to increase supply as oil trades above $100 a barrel.

¡§It was one of the worst meetings we¡¦ve ever had,¡¦¡¦ Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said as representatives of the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries left the meeting in Vienna after five hours of talks. ¡§We were unable to reach an agreement.¡¦¡¦

Oil prices gained $1.65 to settle at $100.74 per barrel yesterday, after the meeting ended with a split underscoring growing divisions within the group that accounts for about 40 percent of the world¡¦s crude. Saudi Arabia, OPEC¡¦s largest producer, together with Kuwait, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates, proposed increasing group output by 1.5 million barrels a day to 30.3 million barrels. They were blocked by members, including Iran and Venezuela, which warned of a collapse in prices.


¡§It¡¦s a bit surprising because the Saudis usually get their way, and the track record since 1998, on balance, has been pretty good,¡¦¡¦ said Mike Wittner, the head of oil-market research at Societe Generale SA in New York, who said before yesterday¡¦s meeting there was a 65 percent chance OPEC would decide to raise production. ¡§In this particular case, there were very diverse opinions going into the meeting and even looking at the fundamentals, there were different signals.¡¦¡¦

OPEC¡¦s spare production capacity is poised to dwindle, David Greely, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group, said yesterday. Rising global demand for oil will exhaust OPEC¡¦s surplus capacity next year, said Goldman, which forecast on May 24 that Brent crude will hit $120 within six months and $130 within a year. Brent settled 1 percent higher at $117.94 today in London.

While OPEC¡¦s lack of coordination appears ¡§disconcerting, the fact remains that the vast majority of OPEC spare capacity remains in Saudi Arabia,¡¦¡¦ Greely said. ¡§Consequently, it still remains a question of Saudi¡¦s willingness and ability to raise production to keep pace with world oil demand growth.¡¦¡¦

It will be a stretch for Saudi Arabia on its own to add the 1.9 million barrels of daily oil out needed to meet the 30.87 million barrels of daily demand OPEC forecasts the third quarter, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts including Lawrence Eagles said yesterday. The bank reiterated its forecast that oil will reach $130 a barrel in 2011.

Oil has gained 10 percent this year, raising concern that price gains will stunt economic growth and stoke inflation.