Loren Steffy: Springtime in Vienna was chilly for OPEC

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/business/steffy/7603829.html#ixzz1OregcU7m


The Arab Spring dawned in Vienna this week.

Sectarian strife that has roiled the Middle East in recent months shattered OPEC's long-held illusion of consensus among cartel members, as a group led by Iran blocked Saudi Arabia's call for increased oil production.

Iran used the leverage of its OPEC presidency to maintain current output quotas, in place for three years, despite rising prices.

Worldwide demand, the Iranians argue, doesn't justify increased production to bring prices down.

It is, of course, a chicken-and-egg debate. Higher prices crimp demand.

The Saudis, long the price cops on the global oil beat, have vowed to increase production anyway.

The very public spat that ended OPEC's meeting after five hours, though, does further damage to the cartel's already-tattered image. The production increases Saudi Arabia wanted would merely have codified the cheating on quotas that's already been going on.

In other words, member countries not only couldn't agree on what they will do, they couldn't agree on what they're already doing.

Combined, OPEC members are exceeding their quotas by some 1.5 million barrels a day, and the Saudis have continued to notch up their production.

The spectacle of open quarreling among members had only a modest effect on crude prices, pushing them above $100 a barrel for the first time in a month. If anything, the OPEC gridlock means the price fluctuations that have frustrated U.S. motorists this spring are likely to persist.

"The lack of transparency is still what's going to continue to cause the volatility," said Michael Frazier, CEO of Houston-based Simmons & Company International.
Doubts about capacity

For years, doubts have persisted about OPEC's excess capacity. When a country ¡X such as Iran, in this case - says it doesn't see a need to pump more oil, is that an honest assessment, or does it mask the fact that it is already producing all it can?

The question is particularly important with regard to Saudi Arabia, which claims to control almost three-fourths of the world's spare oil capacity and which is believed to be the only country capable of smoothing price fluctuations.

During my trip to the kingdom in late March, oil ministry officials insisted that the country could increase its production by as much as 3.5 million barrels a day without any problem. That capacity, they said, was more than enough to stabilize global oil markets.

Yet we've seen few concrete signs that the Saudis can calm the markets the way they once did. Crude prices have slipped well above the $70 to $80-a-barrel band that the Saudis consider optimum for maintaining long-term demand.
Details shrouded

In the short term, we don't know the answer because neither the Saudis nor their fellow OPEC members will release detailed production data, only the overall numbers reported to the International Energy Agency. Without the more complete data to back them up, those numbers are suspect.

Their production details are a secret OPEC members guard more closely even than the appearance of consensus.

"They don't want to show each other's hand," Frazier said. "Their disagreements are a byproduct of the lack of transparency."

The longer OPEC continues to keep the rest of the world in the dark about its production, the more likely that prices will remain volatile. And more volatile prices are likely to mean higher prices, Frazier said.

OPEC's meeting may have ended on a note of uncharacteristic discord, but it's still business as usual. The cartel hasn't shown it can put a ceiling on prices, which means the pingponging of pump prices that we saw this spring is likely to continue.

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/business/steffy/7603829.html#ixzz1OreiMpt1
