OPEC divided on output level; oil prices increase

VIENNA, Austria -- OPEC unexpectedly left its production levels unchanged Wednesday, causing oil prices to jump, as senior officials said their meeting ended in disarray -- a stunning admission for an organization that places a premium on consensus decision-making.

OPEC officials said that because of a policy deadlock, the group will maintain current output ceilings with the option of meeting within the next three months to consider an increase.

"We are unable to reach consensus to ... raise our production," OPEC Secretary General Abdullah Al-Badri told journalists, in comments reflecting unusual tensions in the 12-nation Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.

Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi called it "one of the worst meetings we've ever had," while analysts covering OPEC for more than 20 years said they could not remember any other time that the group had admitted to such divisions in its ranks.

Some even saw the abortive meeting as a harbinger of demise for the organization, which produces more than a third of the world's petroleum.

"OPEC is ... on the point of breakup," said Marc Ostwald of Monument Securities. "A broader perspective is that the post-World War II world order is fracturing in a spectacular fashion, be it the EU/Eurozone, the World Bank/IMF, (or) OPEC."

Other experts were less outspoken but agreed Wednesday's outcome would weaken the image of OPEC as a major regulator of oil markets.

"I think there were some tensions," said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics. "But everyone has to do business, and countries have different views on what the future of demand looks like."

The news caught markets by surprise, sending oil prices sharply higher. Benchmark crude for July delivery was up $1.65 to $100.74 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after trading lower ahead of the OPEC meeting.

Saudi Arabia and other influential gulf nations had pushed to increase production ceilings to calm markets and ease concerns that crude was overpriced for consumer nations struggling with their economies. Those opposed were led by Iran, the second-strongest producer within the group.

Though the Saudis and the Iranians are frequently at loggerheads over pricing, past meetings normally fell in behind Saudi Arabia, which produces the lion's share of OPEC output.

But this time, the Saudi-Iranian rivalry combined with major political and economic uncertainties to lead to deadlock.

Among the biggest worries is that unrest in Libya and Yemen could destabilize larger oil-producing nations in the region.

The two countries normally produce less than 4% of the world's oil needs, and Saudi Arabia and others have boosted output to make up for much of the shortfall.
