OPEC divided as Saudis push for production increase

A scuttled OPEC deal to increase production and cool oil prices exposed a serious rift within the cartel, raising questions about the group¡¦s sway over global oil supplies.

Led by Iran, OPEC¡¦s price hawks balked at a plan to boost the cartel¡¦s production target, showing their preference for high prices. Saudi Arabia, which led the proposal to increase the cartel¡¦s production, moved quickly to reassure nervous traders that several members will carry on with plans to raise their output in an effort to keep a lid on prices.

Ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ended their meeting in Vienna with no agreement on production targets, as six members rejected the proposal to raise the ceiling by 1.5 million barrels per day.

The cartel met as ongoing political violence in the Middle East and North Africa continues to inflate global crude prices with a significant political-risk premium. High oil prices, fuelled as well by growing demand in emerging markets, are sapping consumer spending power and threatening to derail the economic recovery in Japan, Europe and North America.

Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said it was ¡§one of the worst meetings we have ever had¡¨ in the cartel¡¦s history. But, he added, his country along with Kuwait, Qatar and United Arab Emirates are all ¡§able and willing¡¨ to supply markets.

The price hawks, led by Iran and Venezuela, are producing as much crude as they can without massive new investment, but are heavily dependent on oil revenues to provide social programs for their youthful and restless populations. Those countries have nothing to gain in the short term by agreeing to have other cartel members raise production to put downward pressure on prices.

Analysts say the OPEC split does not spell the demise of the cartel, but does indicate it is less effective in manipulating the market than it has been in the past. With international prices above $100 (U.S.) a barrel, the hawks have grudgingly tolerated the decision of Gulf state members to exceed their targeted output.

The real test for the group would come if higher production, slower global growth or peace in the Middle East sent prices down sharply. In that case, OPEC's members would have to cut production to defend the price ¡V as they did successfully in the latter part of 2008.

¡§They like to maintain the cohesion of the group for a time when they have to cut back and they need everybody,¡¨ IHS Energy analyst Bhushan Bahree said. ¡§Going up, anybody can go on their own.¡¨

Crude prices shot higher on the news of OPEC¡¦s stalemate. North Sea Brent rose $1.06 (U.S.) to $117.84 a barrel, after hitting $118.59 earlier Wednesday, while North America¡¦s benchmark crude, West Texas Intermediate, added $1.65 to close at $100.74, down from its intraday peak of $101.59.

¡§The market is not going to see a shortage because we did not reach agreement at this meeting,¡¨ Saudi Arabia¡¦s Mr. al-Naimi insisted in a report from Platts energy news service out of Vienna. ¡§We have the capacity to deliver and we will deliver it.¡¨

The Persian Gulf states were pushing a plan to boost OPEC¡¦s production by 1.5 million barrels a day from current levels of around 28.8 million barrels. The cartel¡¦s target ¡V set in December of 2008 ¡V is for 24.8 million barrels per day, but members have flouted that ceiling for more than a year.

Six countries balked at plans to boost production any further, eager to see prices remain well above $100 a barrel. The six include Iran, Venezuela, Ecuador, Angola, Algeria and Libya.

The cartel is not only divided by its members¡¦ views of the oil markets, but also by political tensions, with Gulf states supporting Libyan rebels and Iran backing Shiite protesters in Bahrain, a key Saudi ally.

Saudi Arabia had hoped to send a clear signal to the oil markets that OPEC intended to prevent further price increases, but did not win support for that unambiguous message.

¡§Ironically, although [Mr.] Naimi characterized this as the ¡¥one of the worst meetings,¡¦ the ones who really lost are not the Gulf Arab states, but the capacity-constrained members,¡¨ said David Kirsch, director of market intelligence for Washington-based PFC Energy consultancy.

¡§Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE and Qatar will now all produce at levels they see fit. They would have agreed to lower production levels in exchange for agreement on a unified position,¡¨ Mr. Kirsch said in an e-mail from Vienna. Now, prices could drop if the Saudis increase production, which will reduce earnings for those members who lack the capacity to increase output.

The International Energy Agency ¡V which represents industrialized energy consumers ¡V deplored OPEC¡¦s failure to agree on higher production targets.

¡§Of course what really matters is actual supply, which should move in line with seasonally rising demand, and we urge key producers to respond accordingly,¡¨ the Paris-based agency said in a release.

¡§Ongoing supply disruptions, as well as the fragile state of the global economy, call for a prompt increase in supply on a competitive basis that will allow refiners to boost throughputs and meet rising seasonal demand.¡¨

Industry analysts suggest global markets are well-supplied with crude now, but they expect significant demand growth from emerging markets for the rest of the year, which will require greater production or prices will spike higher.