New Cracks in Oil Cartel 

VIENNA¡XAn acrimonious OPEC meeting failed to produce an agreement to increase oil production despite tight supplies and rising prices, bringing to the fore long-simmering divisions between key cartel players Saudi Arabia and Iran and calling into question the group's ability to influence oil prices.

The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' first meeting since the start of pro-democracy movements in the Middle East also turned out to be one of its most turbulent sessions in years.

Tensions spilled into the open as solemn-looking delegates filed out of OPEC's modern headquarters and Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi declared it "one of the worst meetings we ever had."

In the wake of the failure to reach agreement, people familiar with the matter said the Saudis are now likely to unilaterally increase their own production by up to one million barrels a day, which would put them well above their stated quota of eight million barrels a day.

A group led by Saudi Arabia pushed hard for an actual increase in oil production of 1.5 million barrels a day, which would have brought OPEC's total production to 30.3 million barrels a day, roughly a third of world supplies.

Despite softness in the global economy¡Xand a tightening in supplies brought on by the halt of production in war-torn OPEC nation Libya¡Xthe group argued that oil demand will pick up in the second half of 2011 as it did in the first half thanks to the global economic recovery. 

Most OPEC members, including Saudi Arabia, regularly flout quotas, but the world's largest oil exporter has long cherished the OPEC quota system as an important lever over prices.

But the Saudi group was blocked by six members, including Iran, who argued that demand for oil will remain soft due to weaknesses in the U.S. economy and other factors.

Jay Carney, a spokesman for President Barack Obama, said the White House is considering opening the country's strategic petroleum reserves. "He's looking at a lot of options," Mr. Carney said. "We believe we are in a situation where supply is not reaching demand," a situation he attributed partly to the conflict in Libya.

The stalemate represents one of the most intense fractures in years within the 12-member cartel. The Saudi push to boost production was backed by Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, which cited OPEC's own projections showing an increase in demand for the group's crude in the second half of this year.

They were overruled by six members¡XIran, Algeria, Angola, Venezuela, Ecuador and Libya. Delegates for those countries said the official reasons for the veto centered on questions about the resilience of oil demand in the face of weak economic data out of the U.S. and credit-tightening measures in China. Iraq and Nigeria were silent on the issue.

Analysts, however, were quick to point out that the split was also between OPEC's "haves" and "have-nots"¡Xthe latter being a reference to nations endowed with harder-to-extract oil reserves and their inability to increase production even if they wanted to.

The next scheduled OPEC meeting is in December, but Iranian oil minister Mohammad Aliabadi, the current OPEC president, said he would call for an emergency meeting at an unspecified date before then.

It's possible the cartel's differences could be resolved through informal discussions before it meets again. But the intensity of this week's blowup took oil experts aback, and they began to raise big questions about OPEC's purpose.

"No matter what anyone has been talking about for the past four or five days, this outcome was not in anyone's conversation," said Dominick Chirichella, an analyst at the Energy Management Institute in New York.

He added: "It makes me start to wonder, why does anyone want to be in OPEC anymore? Why pay the millions in dues and go to these meetings where the decisions don't even matter?"

OPEC has long enjoyed primacy in the world's oil markets. While the cartel doesn't include all of the world's signifcant oil producers, such as Russia, its membership roster lists most of the biggest players, which meet throughout the year and study global supply, demand and inventories. 

OPEC typically decides where to steer the market using a system of production quotas assigned to each member, except for Iraq currently, changing oil output levels to pressure oil prices up or down. How quotas are allocated is a subject of great debate, and the allotments have changed based on a country's long-term production trends.

The decision to hold production at current levels quickly reverberated. Oil prices in New York were up 2.8% at their intraday high but backed down to end at $100.74, as the prospect of more Saudi barrels filtered through the market.

The stalemate at OPEC suggests that neither U.S. officials, nor American motorists, can expect much help from the bloc in controlling the price of oil. Although gasoline prices in the U.S. have eased somewhat in the past month, they remain well above their year-ago levels.

The average U.S. price of a gallon of unleaded gasoline Wednesday was $3.75, down from $3.96 a month ago but higher than the year-ago average of $2.72, according to the AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report.

The question now is whether some OPEC nations, primarily Saudi Arabia, will supply the market with more oil regardless of the stalemate. What the four countries pushing for the increase have that the others don't is what is known in the industry as spare capacity, or the ability to quickly ramp up production.

Saudi Arabia is sitting on the biggest piece of OPEC's spare-capacity cushion, which is estimated at up to 4.5 million barrels a day, and has the incentive to use it.

Aiming to stall the potential for any unrest within its own borders, the kingdom went on a spending spree after this spring's uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Oman, Bahrain, Yemen and Syria.

With the exception of Libya, most OPEC producers have damped unrest. Saudi Arabia announced the equivalent of $129 billion in new expenditures, including new public-sector jobs, state employees' pay increases and unemployment benefits.

In the wake of the meeting, with emotions flaring, one delegate from the Gulf region said OPEC's failure to reach consensus and the breakaway of the Gulf bloc represented a breakdown of the group's fundamental principle.

It is "the end of the quota system," he said. 