Oil price jumps as Opec holds production quotas

Experts said the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) cartel, which accounts for 40pc of the world's supply, was on the brink of breaking up, with two opposing camps emerging.

Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates wanted an increase to dampen an oil price that has gained 25pc since tensions erupted in the Middle East this spring while Libya, Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Venezuela, Iraq and Iran wanted to keep production unchanged.

The meeting in Vienna ended on Wednesday with no formal decision on how much oil should be produced.

However, Saudi Arabia, Opec's biggest producer, may disobey the current quotas and raise output as calls grow for more oil. It already produces more than its quota, mostly to compensate for the loss of Libya's output because of the North African nation's civil war.

The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, described the twice-yearly meeting as the "worst we have ever had" as the group failed to reach agreement for the first time. 
Opec has immense influence over the market because it supplies so much of the world's oil and agrees on how much it will release.

The group has been under intense pressure from the International Energy Agency and the US to lift production but many Opec countries have little capacity to do so and would suffer from resulting lower oil prices at a time when their populations are suffering food price inflation.

An IEA spokesman urged Opec members to disobey the quotas. He said: "What really matters is actual supply, which should move in line with seasonally rising demand, and we urge key producers to respond accordingly."

Marc Ostwald, strategist at Monument Securities, noted some Opec members are under severe domestic pressure to maximise revenues from oil production.

"Opec is thus on the point of break-up, and the biggest beneficiaries may well prove to be Russia and Kazakhstan," he said, since these countries are major rival producers. "The objectors have one very common theme. They are using foreign exchange reserves from oil revenues to subsidise... imported food price inflation to avoid the fate of Egypt and Tunisia. In all cases, they have absolutely no desire to help the US in any shape or form."

Emma Pinnock, of UK energy analysts Inenco, said the decision paved the way for "a lot of volatility" on the oil and gas markets and "high energy prices and high inflation".
