OPEC unable to reach consensus

"Unfortunately, we are unable to reach a consensus at this time to reduce or raise our production," OPEC Secretary General Abdalla Salem el-Badri.

Iranian Oil Minister Mohammad Aliabadi, who is also serving as president of the producer's organisation, said the decision was "unwelcome" by some members.

The White House warned that global oil supply was not meeting demand, after OPEC left its oil output target unchanged.

White House spokesman Jay Carney said that the US was in frequent contact with oil producing nations to make its views on the situation known.

"We believe we are in a situation where supply is not meeting demand," Mr Carney said.

Gulf delegates have been pushing in recent days for an increase of one million to 1.5 million barrels a day. But some other OPEC members have criticized the plan, arguing that the global oil supplies are sufficient and that today's prices of $US100-$US115 a barrel are appropriate.

The decision means OPEC members will keep their current output unchanged.

"The is one of the worst meetings we ever had in OPEC," Saudi Arabian oil minister Ali Naimi told reporters after the meeting had ended. "We were not able to reach an agreement."

Oil futures jumped $US1.65, or 1.7 per cent, to $US100.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

OPEC countries supply about a third of the world's crude oil. The four countries party to the Gulf Co-operation Council -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and United Arab Emirates -- proposed an increase of 1.5 million barrels a day over the current 28.8 million-barrel-a-day production level that does include Iraq.

"That means we are suggesting production of 30.3 million barrels a day," Mr Naimi said.

Algeria, Angola, Venezuela, Iraq, Iran and Libya rejected the proposal, he said, adding that those countries bound by the quota system "expressed their desire to maintain their production quota as it is".

The International Energy Agency said it was disappointed that OPEC members were unable to agree on the need to increase oil supplies, and reiterated that it stands ready to ensure markets are well supplied.

"What really matters is actual supply, which should move in line with seasonally rising demand, and we urge key producers to respond accordingly," the IEA said in a statement.

"Otherwise, a further tightening in the market and potential increases in prices risk undermining economic recovery."