COMMODITIES-Oil rises again on OPEC; corn at record high

NEW YORK, June 9 (Reuters) - Commodities jumped for a second straight day on Thursday as oil rose again on fears of tight supplies after OPEC failed to decide on output policy, while corn hit record highs on a cut in U.S. crop estimates.

The 19-commodity Reuters-Jefferies CRB index, a benchmark for the asset class, rose nearly 1 percent by 1:40 p.m. EDT (1740 GMT), heading for its biggest gain since the end of May as markets such as cocoa and coffee joined the rally.

Crude oil gained as much as 2 percent, mirroring the early rise of the previous session, after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries on Wednesday left production targets unchanged despite Saudi Arabia's push for an increase.

Analysts said OPEC's move had provided at least a psychological boost to oil prices in the short term as the market fretted over supplies during summer -- when motoring peaks in the top oil-consuming country, the United States.

Over the longer term, however, the outlook for oil could weaken on concerns about the softening U.S. and world economies.

"(OPEC's) non-outcome reinforces the floor under oil prices and leaves the output gap in place. But there is clear evidence of a slowdown in the global economy keeping demand in check," said Harry Tchilinguirian, energy analyst at BNP Paribas.

U.S. crude's front-month contract in New York rose $1.70 to a session high of $102.44. In London, Brent crude's benchmark jumped $1.87 to a one-month peak of $119.72.

Corn futures surged for a third straight day, rising over 3 percent to record highs, after the U.S. government slashed its estimate of corn acreage in the United States this year and forecast the second-tightest supply since the 1930s.

Excessive rains from North Dakota to Ohio this spring delayed crop seeding at a time when grain prices have been rising due to tight supplies and global food prices are hovering near record highs.

Front-month corn on the Chicago Board of Trade climbed 29 cents to a record $7.93 per bushel, before paring gains.

"This market, when we are trading new highs, will be very cautious. Traders will take money off the table rather than take positions for the long term," said Shawn McCambridge, analyst at Prudential Bache Commodities in Chicago.