OPEC Meeting Ends In Discord, Saudis Unable To Swing Production Increase Accord

For the first time in its history, the Saudis were unable to get the other members of OPEC to agree to increase production to lower prices on crude.

The meeting reportedly ended in considerable turmoil and acrimony, and Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister for Saudi Arabia was quoted as saying, "We were unable to reach an agreement¡Xthis is one of the worst meetings we have ever had."

The Saudis are OPEC's biggest producer, and normally have enough clout to persuade the others to go along with them. But the meeting degenerated into a standoff between the Gulf Arab countries, who had undoubtedly trying to fulfill a request from the White House and Europe to get prices lowered before the oncoming election and anti-U.S. forces in the coalition led by Iran and Venezuela.

Both countries have also been advocating that OPEC cease trading oil in US dollars for some time, a move the Saudis and the Emirates have been resisting.

Other political sore points reportedly also dominated the meeting, Qatar has given support to the Libyan rebels fighting Muammar Gadafi's government, while the Saudis have angered Shi'ite Iran and Shi'te-dominated Iraq by sending troops to support the Sunni government in Bahrain against a Shi'ite rebellion.

Opposing production increases were Libya, Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Venezuela, Iraq and Iran, and they were able to oppose the Saudis and the Gulf States and prevent an agreement. The Saudis and the UAE are reportedly going to try unilaterally increasing production.

Crude prices immediately spiked to $118 per barrel.

What this means in the political realm here in the U.S. is that prices at the pump aren't coming down anytime soon, which could have an effect on President Obama's chances for re-election next November, since the Obama Administration still effectively has a de facto ban on offshore drilling. Russia and Kazakhstan, two major non-OPEC producers, can be expected to benefit from increased cash flow due to the increased prices.