OPEC won¡¦t increase output

NEW YORK ¡X A contentious meeting of oil ministers ended Wednesday with a clear message: Don¡¦t count on OPEC to do much about oil prices.

The 12-nation group decided not to boost production, which most likely would have resulted in lower prices. That sent oil back above $100 a barrel.

More importantly, it sets the stage for higher prices later this year.

Rising energy prices since the beginning of the year have affected the U.S. economic recovery. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday reported that the economy slowed in several parts of the country this spring and blamed high gas prices for sluggish consumer spending.

At Wednesday¡¦s OPEC meeting in Vienna, Saudi Arabia lobbied for an increase in oil output . Countries including Iran resisted, arguing that oil supplies are adequate to meet demand and prices are appropriate.

¡§We are unable to reach consensus,¡¨ OPEC Secretary General Abdullah Al-Badri said after the meeting in Vienna ended. Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi called the meeting ¡§one of the worst ever.¡¨

Traders were surprised, and oil prices climbed. Benchmark West Texas Intermediate for July delivery gained $1.65 to settle at $100.74 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Many analysts were almost certain that OPEC would increase production. OPEC not only supplies 34 percent of the world¡¦s oil ¡X about 29.7 million barrels per day ¡X it has the unique ability to crank up production as needed.

Other oil-producing countries, such as Canada, Russia and Mexico, don¡¦t have that flexibility.

Global oil consumption is expected to increase by 2 percent this year to an average of 88.4 million barrels per day.

While the Saudis and the Iranians are frequently at loggerheads over pricing at OPEC meetings, member countries usually fall in behind the lead of Saudi Arabia, which produces most of the group¡¦s oil. This time the Saudi-Iranian rivalry resulted in a deadlock.

The International Energy Agency in Paris had urged oil producers to put more crude on the market.

¡§Ongoing supply disruptions, as well as the fragile state of the global economy, call for a prompt increase in supply,¡¨ the agency said.
