'Worst ever' OPEC meeting pushes oil price near $118

Read more: http://www.investmentweek.co.uk/investment-week/news/2077623/-worst-opec-meeting-pushes-oil-price-near-usd118#ixzz1OydcYBza
Investment Week - News and analysis for investment advisors and wealth managers. Claim your free subscription today.


An OPEC dispute over whether to raise oil production levels has sent oil prices soaring to $117.8 per barrel.

The price of Brent Crude climbed 2.1% late yesterday to over $117, before rising further this morning to trade at around $117.9 just after London's main market opened.

US light sweet crude also jumped 71 cents to $101.10 per barrel, after the 12 members of OPEC were unable to agree on a deal to raise production levels, dashing hopes more barrels could be produced to alleviate pressure on the price.

Iranian oil minister Mohammad Aliabadi, president of OPEC, which supplies around a third of the world's oil, described the decision to raise production levels as "unwelcome" by some members.

Abdullah Al-Badri, secretary general of OPEC, added: "We are unable to reach consensus to raise our production."

Gulf delegates have pushed for an increase from 1 million to 1.5 million barrels per day. But the suggestion came up against opposition from members who believe supply levels are sufficient and current price ranges (between $100 and $115) appropriate.

Opposition came from Venezuela, Iran, Algeria and Libya, while supporting countries included Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states.

Saudi oil minister Ali al-Naimi described the meeting as: "The worst meeting we have ever had", according to the BBC.

Angelos Damaskos, the chief executive officer of Sector Investment Managers and fund adviser to the Junior Oils trust, said the decision by OPEC would leave oil supported at $100 per barrel in the medium term.

"The decision indicates several OPEC members do not have much spare capacity to supply a market where demand from Asia continues to be strong," he said.

"Oil prices are set to be supported at the ¢G100/bl level for the medium term and could rise to old highs in the future."

According to BP's annual statistic review, oil consumption in 2011 rose by 3.1%, more than double the 10-year average increase.

Read more: http://www.investmentweek.co.uk/investment-week/news/2077623/-worst-opec-meeting-pushes-oil-price-near-usd118#ixzz1OydgROcD
Investment Week - News and analysis for investment advisors and wealth managers. Claim your free subscription today.
