NYMEX-Crude ends higher on supply worry after OPEC

VIENNA¡XSome Middle East oil powerbrokers, led by Saudi Arabia, are quietly pressing ahead with a plan for OPEC to boost output, as the group headed into what appeared to be its most uncertain meeting in years.

Key officials of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, most notably Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali Naimi, stayed unusually silent ahead of Wednesday's meeting, a sign that a solid consensus hadn't been reached Tuesday amid a complex political and economic environment.

OPEC members are squaring off over the fundamental question of whether the global economy¡Xshowing signs of weakness, especially in the oil-hungry U.S.¡Xneeds to be supplied with more crude in coming months. Some OPEC members, led by the Saudis, have pushed for a production increase in the belief that demand will rise in the second half of the year.

But others, including Iran and Iraq, are resisting the push. These members believe the global market is well-supplied and are intent on maintaining current oil prices of around $100 per barrel. 

Most OPEC member nations were spared the unrest that rippled through the Middle East and North Africa this spring. But some political struggles spilled out into the open this week, in part over the presence here of new players in key roles.

A handful of people organized a sit-in in front of OPEC's Vienna headquarters to protest the choice of Omran Abukraa, a longtime ally of Col. Moammar Gadhafi, as the leader of the Libyan delegation. Officials from Qatar, an outspoken critic of Gadhafi's regime, delayed their arrival in Vienna generating speculation that they were protesting Mr. Abukraa's selection. 

Until the last minute, there was talk that Libya's rebel Transitional National Council was preparing to send an alternate delegate to the OPEC meeting. A rebel official said the Benghazi-based council members, who are seeking to topple Col. Gadhafi's regime, were dissuaded by officials from OPEC countries. Most countries world-wide haven't recognized the council as the official government of Libya.

Meanwhile, Wednesday's meeting will be chaired by Mohammad Aliabadi, whom Iranian officials confirmed Monday would attend on the country's behalf. Iran announced its decision after much speculation about who would represent the country, OPEC's second-biggest producer after Saudi Arabia.

Mr. Aliabadi, who is better know as the head of Iran's National Olympic Committee, is an ally of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad with no obvious oil experience. Some leading Iranian oil officials have been outspoken in recent days in criticizing OPEC's plan to boost output. Mr. Aliabadi refused to comment Tuesday.

The more basic argument is about the state of the world economy. Despite signs of weakness¡Xparticularly in the U.S., the world's largest oil consumer¡Xfactions within OPEC are looking to respond to projections for significantly higher oil demand in the second half of 2011. A ministerial committee that met on the eve of Wednesday's meeting recommended that the group boost output by 1 million barrels to 1.5 million barrels a day.

Yet it is unclear whether that would come by way of a real increase in oil production, or by aligning the quotas with current output. The 11 OPEC countries bound by quotas¡XIraq is exempt¡Xare estimated to be pumping about 1.5 million barrels a day above allotments totaling 24.845 million barrels a day.

Still, to maintain OPEC's integrity, Mr. Naimi and his allies need to persuade the group to act collectively. Mr. Naimi and other Gulf State ministers continued to work behind the scenes to persuade colleagues to present a united stance, officials said.

Ministers from the three Gulf states, which have been working in tandem to build the case within OPEC for the production increase, met in the Grand Wien Hotel for about an hour late Tuesday afternoon but declined to discuss what happened.

Saudi Arabia will broker an agreement, even if it means backing down from some demands on quotas, said David Kirsch, director at PFC Energy, a consultancy.

"There will be some give and take," Mr. Kirsch said. "At the end of the day, if the Saudis do think production should be increased, they're not going to let a single country have a veto. They'll search for a consensus."

Oil traders took a wait-and-see approach, with light, sweet crude for July delivery up just 8 cents to $99.09 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude on the ICE futures exchange, widely considered a more accurate global benchmark, shot up on the uncertainty surrounding OPEC by $2.30 a barrel, or 2%, to close at $116.78.

Until last week, most OPEC officials and oil-market watchers had anticipated the group would maintain its status quo on output. But in recent days, Persian Gulf state leaders, chiefly Saudi Arabia but also Kuwait, have said a confluence of factors¡Xincluding the continuing outage in war-torn Libya and projections of rising demand in the U.S. and especially China¡Xcould leave oil markets tight in the year's second half. Gulf State ministers have largely brushed aside concerns about anemic U.S. jobs growth and other weak economic indicators.

On Tuesday, the United Arab Emirates oil minister, Mohammad Al-Hamli, said today's relatively well-supplied oil market will give way to a more supply-constrained market. "You need to really look beyond the second quarter," he said. The market "is going to be tight."

At least one OPEC member openly criticized a move to boost output. Iraq's oil minister, Abdul Kareem Luaiby, said Tuesday he didn't see "any need" for OPEC to act this week, adding that current prices "do not pose a threat to economic growth."

Iran has also criticized the move to boost output. Other OPEC members, including Venezuela and Angola, are believed to be lukewarm. Ministers from these countries didn't speak with reporters Tuesday.

The loudest silence has come from Saudi Mr. Naimi, who has in the past set the tone at OPEC by speaking publicly before the meeting. His sole remarks in recent days came Monday in a Saudi daily newspaper, in which he said it was too "early to talk" about whether OPEC would raise output.

Mr. Naimi's silence thus far suggests even the group's de facto leader isn't quite sure what OPEC will do Wednesday. With some 3.5 million barrels a day of spare capacity, Saudi Arabia is expected to account for the majority of any increased output in the coming period.

But Gulf officials privately say the Saudis would strongly prefer to act within the OPEC framework. For one thing, senior Saudi officials believe fervently in the long-term importance of the producer's organization and want to strengthen its credibility. But the Saudis also have bad memories of the aftermath of recent unilateral moves after a Saudi push to raise output in 2008 backfired following the financial crisis.

"Saudi Arabia is planning to up their production to meet growing demand," said a Gulf source familiar with Saudi thinking. "But it strongly wants OPEC endorsement on the move." 