OPEC sticks to its quotas as dissent splits members

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/business/7602124.html#ixzz1OscH0wm2


A meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ended Wednesday in disarray, with ministers failing to reach a consensus to raise oil production levels. That left existing quotas in place, despite rising world prices and pressure from major oil-consuming countries to increase production.

In the short term, the stalemate, which is a rare public disagreement within the cartel, is unlikely to have more than symbolic importance. OPEC members are already pumping above their quota levels, and Saudi Arabia, the only OPEC country with the ability to significantly increase production, has promised to continue raising its output to satisfy world demand. Oil traders were largely unruffled, with the price of the U.S. benchmark crude rising less than 2 percent to close at $100.74 a barrel.

But the discord highlights the widening split between Saudi Arabia and Iran, which are vying for influence in a Middle East that is being rapidly reshaped by populist uprisings throughout the region. The public disagreement also underscores that the 12 OPEC member countries are increasingly making their own decisions about production levels rather than bowing to the collective judgment of the group.

"This longstanding Iranian-Saudi competition is now being played out in OPEC," said David Goldwyn, until recently the State Department's coordinator for international energy affairs. "Unfortunately for Iran, and fortunately for the rest of us, it's Saudi Arabia that has the spare capacity to give. So Iran can grab the headlines, but Saudi Arabia will follow its own judgment."

At the meeting, Saudi Arabia, which has historically wielded the most clout within the group, argued for a change in production quotas that had been set nearly three years ago. But six other countries with quotas, led by Iran, the current chair of OPEC, refused to agree, arguing the world's markets were already flush with oil and high prices were merely the fault of speculators.

"It was one of the worst meetings we've ever had," the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, told reporters after the meeting. He promised that his country and all the Persian Gulf members with spare production capacity, including Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, would assure that the world is well supplied with oil.
Libya, Yemen

It was the first time in two decades that OPEC delegates could not work out a public agreement at a formal meeting.

With oil exports from Libya and Yemen essentially frozen because of the violent conflicts there, OPEC has faced growing pressure to increase its production to make up the difference.

On Wednesday, the Obama administration said it was disappointed by OPEC's inaction.
U.S. response

"We believe that we are in a situation where supply does not meet demand," White House spokesman Jay Carney said. He said President Barack Obama would consider releasing oil from the nation's strategic reserves if necessary, although gasoline prices have eased a bit over the past month.

As a group, OPEC members are pumping about 1.5 million barrels a day above their quota levels anyway, and Saudi Arabia has been increasing output during the past several weeks by an estimated 200,000 barrels a day. Even Iran has been exceeding its allotment by about 50,000 barrels a day for more than a year to raise funds to counter economic sanctions.
'Everybody' cheating

Fadel Gheit, an oil analyst and managing director of Oppenheimer & Co., said that OPEC's failure to adjust quotas made little difference.

"Everybody in OPEC is cheating, and everyone knows that," he said. "Don't listen to what they say, but watch what they do."

The cartel's decision comes at a time when international oil markets are tightening, with stockpiles declining in much of the world.

The breakdown of order in Yemen is viewed as a danger for neighboring Saudi oil facilities if terrorists can freely use Yemen as a base in the future. Yemen could also be used as a base for pirates to threaten the nearby Bab el Mandeb shipping lane, through which an estimated 3.7 million barrels a day of oil passes.

Relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia, never particularly warm, are tense these days over the sectarian turmoil in Bahrain. Saudi Arabia sent more than 1,000 troops into Bahrain in March to help put down predominantly Shiite protests against the Sunni monarchy. Saudi Arabia blames Iran for inciting the protests, and Iran has harshly criticized Saudi Arabia and Bahrain for repressive policies.

Read more: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/business/7602124.html#ixzz1OscK9Xk1
