Opec disunity spurs surge in Brent crude

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/6f8ac574-91f8-11e0-b8c1-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1OsnwHWfe

Brent crude, the global benchmark, surged $2.50 after the announcement from the producers¡¦ cartel to touch a peak of $118.59 a barrel, the highest since the first week of May when commodities were struck by a huge sell-off. The news pushed West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, back above $100 a barrel.

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/6f8ac574-91f8-11e0-b8c1-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Osnxv4LE

But analysts said the lack of co-ordinated action by Opec would have little impact on the balance of physical supply and demand. That is because Saudi Arabia, the country with the lion¡¦s share of spare production capacity, has already demonstrated that it is prepared to act unilaterally to raise output.

¡§There should be no immediate impact to the physical oil market at all,¡¨ said James Zhang, energy analyst at Standard Bank. ¡§The quota itself is largely symbolic, as Opec members have not being complying to their quotas for many months.¡¨

Nonetheless, the opposition to any increase in oil output from seven out of the 12 members of Opec demonstrated the shift in attitude towards prices that has taken place over the past six months.

Amid political tensions in the Middle East and north Africa ¡V source of a large proportion of global oil supplies ¡V many countries have seen their public spending rise sharply at the same time as production costs are escalating. Many oil producing nations now need oil prices above $100 simply to balance their budgets, analysts estimate. Only a few months ago, the majority were happy with oil in a $70-$80 range.

Saudi Arabia started increasing production in May, and is raising it further in June, according to people familiar with the country¡¦s activities.

With no agreement on quotas at the meeting in Vienna on Wednesday, the country, the world¡¦s top oil producer, will be free to raise production as much as it sees fit.

¡§The Saudis have been pretty darn clear about what their intentions are,¡¨ said Michael Wittner, head of oil research at Societe Generale in New York. ¡§They¡¦ve increased output in May, they¡¦re increasing it again in June. They plan to increase output even more into July and August ¡V I think that¡¦s going to happen regardless.¡¨

Mr Wittner added that he expected prices to stabilise after their initial jump in reaction to the inconclusive Opec meeting. ¡§Markets will come to the conclusion that the Saudis are going to follow through on their plans anyway. They have a track record of doing that,¡¨ he said.

Few disagree that more oil is needed. With refiners ramping up production after the traditional maintenance season, oil demand is likely to increase. Energy shortages in Japan in the wake of the earthquake there and in China after drought reduced the amount of available hydroelectric power have boosted demand for oil products for electricity generation, too.

The International Energy Agency, the oil consuming countries¡¦ watchdog, on Wednesday urged producers to respond to ¡§seasonally rising demand¡¨.

Physical traders expect that, without an increase in production, global oil demand could outpace supply by around 1.5m barrels a day in the third quarter, resulting in a sharp drawdown in stocks.

¡§Even if they want to keep oil at $100 they should increase production,¡¨ one senior oil trader said. ¡§There¡¦s ample need for an increase; it¡¦s not going to smash the price.¡¨