OPEC impasse keeps quotas unchanged

Oil prices rose Wednesday after OPEC unexpectedly decided to leave its official production levels unchanged.

July crude rose more than two per cent after OPEC's announcement, but gave back some of that to close up $1.65, to $100.74 US a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil is Canada's number one commodity export.

Senior officials said their meeting ended in disarray ¡X a stunning admission for an organization that places a premium on consensus decision-making.

OPEC officials said the failure to reach a consensus meant that output would remain unchanged, but that members have the option of meeting within the next three months for a possible production hike.

Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi called it "one of the worst meetings, we've ever had," while analysts covering OPEC for more than 20 years said they could not remember any other time that the normally closed group had admitted to such divisions in its ranks.

Some even saw the abortive meeting as a harbinger of demise for the organization, which produces more than a third of the world's petroleum.

"OPEC is ... on the point of break-up," said Marc Ostwald of Monument Securities. "A broader perspective is that the post World War II world order is fracturing in a spectacular fashion, be it the EU/Eurozone, the World Bank/IMF, (or) OPEC."
Impass weakens OPEC image

Other experts were less outspoken but agreed Wednesday's outcome would weaken the image of OPEC as a major regulator of oil markets.

"I think there were some tensions," said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics. "But everyone has to do business and countries have different views on what the future of demand looks like."

Saudi Arabia led the faction pushing for an increase in production, in order to calm markets and ease concerns that crude was overpriced for consumer nations struggling with their economies.

The leading opponent of that view was Iran, the second-strongest producer.

Among the biggest worries is that unrest in Libya and Yemen could destabilize larger oil-producing nations in the region. The two countries normally produce less than four per cent of the world's oil needs, and Saudi Arabia and others have boosted output to make up for much of the shortfall.

The Saudis have said they are ready to further increase supplies to help compensate for the loss of output from Libya, but other members are already pumping at close to capacity and cannot contribute much more.

This appeared to have fueled the strong opposition to an output ceiling hike.

Global economic weakness is also worrying both producers and consumers, with the concern that if prices stay at their present level of $100, they may contribute to a further slowing of the global recovery and result in less demand.