OPEC quota system not dead - Secretary General

VIENNA -The deep split in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) at its meeting on Wednesday was a normal part of discussions and doesn't signal that the group's all-important quota system for oil production is dead, the head of the group said on Thursday.

"This is not the first time OPEC has failed to reach a decision," OPEC Secretary General Abdalla Salem el-Badri said at the World Economic Forum in Vienna.

OPEC's meeting ended in acrimony after members failed to reach a consensus about oil production. Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi, who was pushing for an output increase, said it was the worst meeting he had ever attended.

Another delegate from the Gulf region said OPEC's system of production quotas was effectively dead after Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates promised to unilaterally increase their output.

"Saudi Arabia, maybe they were angry, but this is normal in OPEC. When we have a debate sometimes we don't agree," Mr El-Badri said. "I don't want to say the OPEC quota system is dead."

The source of disagreement at the meeting was differing views over the outlook for oil demand in the second half of the year, he said.

"There was a lot of uncertainty with some ministers about inflation in the world, about unemployment and sovereign debt," he said. OPEC's own forecasts predicted that its oil production would short fall of demand by 2 million barrels a day in the third quarter and 1.5 million barrels a day in the fourth, but not everyone agreed with those figures, he said.

"That was the whole debate at this meeting. It was not a political issue, it was really an economic issue," he said. OPEC will continue to monitor the market closely in the third quarter and could pump an extra 2 million barrels a day without problem, he said. OPEC will respond if there is a crisis in the market, he said.

Mr El-Badri warned that problems caused by the shutdown of around 1.5 million barrels a day of Libyan oil production because of the civil war are set to get worse.

"Some [European] refiners thought that the Libyan problem would be over in one month or two months, so they waited. Now it's getting worse," he said. This is why some OPEC members are increasing output to fill the gap, as is their sovereign right, he said.

Mr El-Badri said Libya played almost no part in Wednesday's OPEC meeting. "The Libyans came in the last 10 minutes," and had no effect on the outcome, he said. - Dow Jones 