OIL FUTURES: Crude Futures Surge As OPEC Leaves Output Unchanged

NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Oil futures surged above $100 a barrel Wednesday after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would leave production quotas unchanged.

Light, sweet crude for July delivery rose $1.56, or 1.6%, to $100.65 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after spending the morning in negative territory. Brent crude on the ICE futures exchange advanced $1.26, or 1.1%, to $118.04 a barrel.

The decision came as a surprise to oil market participants, who had widely expected the group to boost its output ceiling. Gulf states led by Saudi Arabia, the world's top exporter, had been pushing a plan to raise quotas by 1 million to 1.5 million barrels a day in response to triple-digit oil prices, the loss of Libyan exports and projections for continued economic growth during the second half of the year.

Some member nations, however, including Algeria, Ecuador, Iran and Venezuela, had opposed any output ceiling increase, saying supplies are sufficient. As late as Wednesday morning, Gulf-state oil ministers looking for an increase were lobbying dissenting member nations to rally behind a quota hike.

"This decision today is giving the market an excuse to continue to maintain $100" a barrel, said Matt Zeman, chief market strategist at Kingsview Financial.

Iranian Oil Minister Mohammad Aliabadi, the current president of OPEC, said the decision to leave quotas unchanged was "unwelcome" by some members. However, he said there is no shortage in the market.

Despite the announcement, OPEC members are widely believed to be producing above their ceilings. The 11 OPEC nations bound by the quota-Iraq is exempted-are estimated to be pumping 1.5 million barrels a day above the allotments totalling about 24.85 million barrels a day.

"We know the compliance levels (with quotas) throughout 2010 was somewhere between 50% and 55%," said James Zhang, commodity strategist at Standard Bank.

Some analysts have raised the possibility that Saudi Arabia would raise production even if it failed to get an increase to output quotas. Saudi Oil Minister Ali Naimi said Wednesday the country has spare production capacity and will meet the market's supply need.

While OPEC news dominated market activity Wednesday, market participants will also focus on the Department of Energy's U.S. oil and fuel inventory survey, due at 10:30 a.m. EDT.

The survey is expected to show a 400,000-barrel decline in U.S. oil stockpiles, according to a survey of analysts by Dow Jones Newswires. Gasoline inventories are seen rising by 600,000 barrels, according to analysts, while stocks of distillates, including heating oil and diesel, are seen falling by 200,000 barrels.

Front-month July reformulated gasoline blendstock, or RBOB, recently added 2.02 cents, or 0.7%, to $3.0121 a gallon. July heating oil advanced 2.13 cents, or 0.7%, to $3.0983 a gallon. 