TOP Oil Market News: Crude Drops as OPEC Considers Output Quota

The following is a selection of the most important news affecting the oil market.

Oil Drops as OPEC Considers Quotas on Slowing Economic Growth

Oil fell in New York on speculation OPEC will increase production quotas amid evidence gains in prices may be damping economic recovery.
TOP OIL MARKET NEWS

Oil at $100 Hurting Economy May Be OPEC・s Spur: Energy Markets

OPEC is poised to increase its target for oil production amid concern that $100 crude may stifle the global economic recovery and reduce fuel consumption.

Saudis Face Opposition to Possible Increase in OPEC Oil Output

Any effort by Saudi Arabia to push for an increase in OPEC・s oil output is likely to face resistance from some members as they meet to review production levels, according to the Angolan oil minister.

China Oil Refining Losses Biggest Since 2008: Chart of the Day

Chinese oil refiners are facing their biggest losses from producing fuel since October 2008, even as crude costs fall, because of government price controls on gasoline and diesel to tackle inflation.

Burbank Contrarian Saudi Bets Show Why Oil Helps Return 23.6%

As a hedge-fund manager who thrives on turbulence in the commodities markets, John Burbank couldn・t have done better than the first week of May.

Oil Set to Drop Below $88 in ．Bearish Case・: Technical Analysis

Crude oil is set for a drop below $88 a barrel in a month after a head-and-shoulders pattern indicates an eight-month rally is losing steam, according to technical analysis by Auerbach Grayson, a brokerage in New York.

Global Proved Oil Reserves Advanced 3.8% Last Year, BP Says

Global proved oil reserves rose by 3.8 percent in 2010, BP Plc said today in its annual Statistical Review of World Energy posted on its website.

API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Fell 5.51 Mln Barrels

The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly Statistical Bulletin from the American Petroleum Institute. *T
OPEC

OPEC Concerned About Joblessness, Debt in West, President Says

OPEC is concerned about high unemployment and the sovereign debt crisis in nations belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the group・s president said today.

OPEC Doesn・t Need to Raise Oil Production for Now, Chavez Says

Venezuela・s President Hugo Chavez said he doesn・t see a need for the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase production for now.

Ecuador・s Correa Says OPEC Doesn・t Need to Boost Oil Production

Ecuador・s President Rafael Correa said the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries doesn・t need to boost oil production.

Kuwait Is ．Optimistic・ About OPEC Consensus in Vienna Meeting

Kuwait is ：optimistic； that OPEC members will reach a consensus on their target for oil production, the country・s Oil Minister Mohammad Al-Busairy said.

OPEC Will Supply More Oil ．If There Is a Need,・ Al-Hamli Says

The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will supply more oil if there is a need, United Arab Emirates Oil Minister Mohamed al-Hamli said in Vienna before today・s meeting of ministers from the group.
REFINERIES Map global refinery outages

Royal Dutch Shell Starting Unit at Scotford Upgrader in Alberta

Royal Dutch Shell Plc was in the process of starting a unit at its Scotford upgrader in Alberta yesterday, according to a message left on a community hotline.

Rayong Purifier to Shut Refinery for Maintenance June 20-July 7

Rayong Purifier Pcl, a Thai company that distills condensate residue into fuels, said it will shut its refinery for 18 days as part of a scheduled repair and maintenance plan.

Repsol・s Petronor Refinery Restarts Boiler, to Shut Another Unit

Repsol YPF SA・s Petronor refinery in Bilbao, northern Spain, restarted a steam boiler, Petronor said yesterday in a statement on its website.

Fire at Exxon・s Beaumont Refinery Was in Naphtha Tank, NRC Says

A fire at Exxon Mobil Corp.・s Beaumont refinery in Texas yesterday occurred in a tank containing light naphtha, according to a filing with the National Response Center.

Shell・s Deer Park Refinery Has Release From Flare, NRC Says

Royal Dutch Shell Plc・s Deer Park refinery in Texas had a unit upset resulting in a release from a flare, according to a filing with the National Response Center.
OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS

Asia Gasoil Swaps Rise; Fuel-Oil Discount Narrows: Oil Products

Asia・s gasoil swaps climbed to the highest in more than a month as the product・s crack spread widened, signaling a bigger profit for refiners. Fuel oil・s discount to crude reached the narrowest in 12 weeks.

Oil & Natural Gas Said to Sell June-Loading Naphtha to Cargill

Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India・s largest state-owned oil explorer, sold 35,000 metric tons of naphtha for June loading to Cargill Inc., according to two traders who participate in the market. They declined to be identified as they aren・t authorized to speak with reporters.

Freight Traders Luring Hedge Funds to Expand $24 Billion Market

The new freight derivatives trading screen from the Baltic Exchange, a 267-year-old bourse that sets global shipping prices, will attract hedge funds and expand the $24 billion market, Citigroup Inc. and Cargill Inc. said.

Qatar Sets Land Crude Price for May at $112.65 a Barrel

Qatar set the May prices for land crude at $112.65 a barrel and marine crude at $109.60 a barrel, the state-run Qatar News Agency reported.
TOP ENERGY STORIES

Poland Targeting Shale Gas With Exxon to End Russian Dominance

The same technology that brought the lowest natural gas prices to U.S. consumers since 2002 is being unleashed in Eastern Europe, threatening to reduce Russia・s grip on the region・s energy supplies.

Blustery States Boost Wind Power Over Gas With U.S. Tax Break

A U.S. tax break has helped wind power stem the growth of natural gas as a power-plant fuel in blustery states.

EPA Air Rules to Cost Almost $18 Billion a Year, Coal Group Says

Clean-air rules proposed by the Obama administration will cost utilities $17.8 billion annually and raise electricity rates 11.5 percent on average in 2016, according to an analysis paid for a coal-industry group.

Japan Plans Fundamental Change in Nuclear Rules, Regulator (2)

Japan plans a ：fundamental revision； of its nuclear safety rules and will create an independent regulator to prevent a repeat of the disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power station.

ONGC, GAIL Said to Plan Bid for Part of Exxon Kashagan Stake (1)

Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India・s biggest energy explorer, and GAIL India Ltd. are in talks to buy part of Exxon Mobil Corp.・s stake in Kazakhstan・s Kashagan field, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.

Carbon Credit Among 32 Business Breaks at Risk in Tax Overhaul

Financing for Tenaska Inc.・s carbon-capturing coal plant in West Texas relies on tax credits that may be curbed as Congress considers lowering the corporate tax rate.
OTHER MARKETS

Stocks Fall, Yen Gains on Growth Concerns; Oil, Copper Decline

Stocks retreated in Asia and Europe, while the yen touched a one-month high versus the dollar after U.S. Federal Reserve officials fueled concerns about the sustainability of the global recovery. Oil slipped before OPEC meets to decide on output targets.

Britain, France Accelerate Push at UN for Pressure on Assad (2)

Britain and France responded to escalating violence in Syria by pushing for a vote this week in the United Nations Security Council to condemn the government・s crackdown on protesters, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said.
SPORTS

New York Ironman Event Will Be World・s Most Expensive Triathlon

New York・s inaugural Ironman could cost as much as $1,000 to enter, making it the world・s most-expensive triathlon.

Nowitzki Ignores Fever to Give Dallas NBA Finals Tie With Miami

Dirk Nowitzki ignored a fever to score 10 fourth-quarter points as the Dallas Mavericks beat the Miami Heat 86-83 to tie the National Basketball Association Finals at two games apiece.

Red Sox Beat Yankees, Close in on American League East Lead (1)

The Boston Red Sox defeated the New York Yankees 6-4 to open a three-game series that will decide the leader in Major League Baseball・s American League East division. 