Oil leaps as Opec descends into acrimony

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/2989e512-91b9-11e0-b4a3-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Ow3zR8RH

Opec dashed expectations that it would boost oil output when Iran rallied five member countries on Wednesday to block Saudi Arabia¡¦s attempt to increase production quotas.

The startling development sent Brent crude up more than $2 to a one-month high of $118.59 a barrel. West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, moved above $100 a barrel.

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/2989e512-91b9-11e0-b4a3-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Ow40Qu1Z

Ali Naimi, the veteran Saudi oil minister once described as Opec¡¦s de facto leader, denounced ¡§one of the worst meetings we have ever had¡¨.

He won the backing of only three of Opec¡¦s 12 members for a proposal to add 1.5m barrels per day to the club¡¦s output. However, Iran, which holds Opec¡¦s rotating presidency, marshalled a coalition to defeat the plan during an acrimonious meeting of oil ministers in Vienna.

This brought together Iran¡¦s traditional ally, Venezuela, with its old enemy, Iraq, and also united Algeria, Angola and a Libyan representative loyal to Col Muammer Gaddafi¡¦s regime.

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/2989e512-91b9-11e0-b4a3-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Ow41uXBc

The gathering ended with a perfunctory endorsement of the cartel¡¦s existing ¡V and routinely flouted ¡V production quotas. Abdalla El-Badri, the Opec secretary-general, denied that failure to reach a consensus would risk crisis on the oil market. ¡§We have enough stocks, we have enough supply in the market. There is no shortage,¡¨ he said. But Edward Markey, a Democratic congressman, immediately called for the US to consider releasing emergency oil reserves to keep prices down.

¡§Opec, led by Iran and Venezuela, has snubbed its nose at the United States and the rest of the western nations addicted to Opec oil,¡¨ Mr Markey said. ¡§This is a clear sign that America must engage in a long-term plan to break our ties to this Opec-controlled market, and prepare to deploy America¡¦s oil reserves now to head off an economic collapse from continued high gas prices.¡¨

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/2989e512-91b9-11e0-b4a3-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Ow433qFp

The data produced by Opec¡¦s own secretariat suggests the ¡§call¡¨ on the club¡¦s crude production will rise by 2.1m barrels per day between the second and third quarters, as refineries return to service after maintenance. But some Opec members appear to have disputed this forecast. Opec¡¦s spare capacity of some 4m b/d is concentrated in the hands of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Mr Naimi rallied this group, along with Qatar, behind the proposed increase in output.

But members without any ability to pump more oil ¡V leaving them with no interest in revising quotas ¡V opposed his move. Leonidas Drollas, chief economist of the Centre for Global Energy Studies, said Opec had been rendered ¡§structurally dysfunctional¡¨ by this crucial divide between members with and without spare capacity.

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/2989e512-91b9-11e0-b4a3-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Ow44QnZL

Mr Drollas added that Saudi Arabia would ¡§inevitably¡¨ increase production unilaterally. The kingdom pumped an extra 200,000 b/d in May, a trend that is set to continue this month, with its output likely to climb well above 9m b/d. All this will violate Opec¡¦s official quotas, which Wednesday¡¦s meeting chose to leave unchanged. They theoretically bind 11 members to produce no more than 24.85m b/d.

In reality, they exceeded this total by 1.3m b/d in April and perhaps 1.59m b/d last month. Analysts believe this divergence is set to widen and Opec¡¦s reputation will suffer accordingly.

¡§It will weaken their credibility as an organisation because they¡¦re clearly not acting together any more,¡¨ said Emma Pinnock, energy analyst at Inenco, a consultancy.

The loss of Libyan production, which totalled 1.58m b/d in January, has been a central cause of rising oil prices, with a barrel of Brent crude peaking at $125 in April.

But Mr Badri, a former deputy prime minister in Col Gaddafi¡¦s regime, said that developments in his country had not detained the ministers. ¡§We did not discuss Libya¡¦s situation,¡¨ he said.

Mr Badri, visibly dejected, blamed the lack of agreement on discrepancies in official data about the oil market. ¡§Everyone has his own data and information,¡¨ he said. ¡§We are unable to consolidate our numbers together so we can agree to increase or reduce our production.¡¨

Mr Naimi cut an irascible figure at the outset of Wednesday¡¦s meeting. He remained indignantly tight-lipped about his plans, responding to questions by saying: ¡§Don¡¦t waste your time.¡¨

Nearby, his colleagues openly voiced their opposition. Rafael Ramirez, the Venezuelan oil minister, told journalists: ¡§The market is in balance.¡¨ As for increasing the quotas, he said: ¡§We don¡¦t believe it¡¦s necessary.¡¨

Mohammad Aliabadi, the acting Iranian oil minister, chaired the gathering. Afterwards, he announced that its only decision had been to hold another meeting in three months¡¦ time. Calmly, he added: ¡§This decision was unfortunately not welcomed by certain members.¡¨