OIL FUTURES: Crude Prices Lower Ahead Of OPEC Meeting 

SINGAPORE (Dow Jones)--Crude-oil futures fell Wednesday in Asia as traders awaited a decision from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries on whether to increase its production quota, to meet likely higher global demand in the second half of the year.

"Market expectations for the OPEC meeting seem to focus on a 1 million- to 1.5 million-barrel-a-day quota increase, which would legitimize some, but not all, of the group's current overage," Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce analyst Katherine Spector said in a note to investors.

On the New York Mercantile Exchange, light, sweet crude futures for delivery in July traded at $98.56 a barrel at 0655 GMT, down $0.53 in the Globex electronic session. July Brent crude on London's ICE Futures exchange fell $0.60 to $116.18 a barrel.

"With production already some 2.3 million barrels a day over existing quotas anyway, the gesture of formalizing additional output would be politically prudent in light of the International Energy Agency's strongly worded call for more supply," Spector said.

IEA Executive Director Nobuo Tanaka said earlier this week that the organization, which represents the governments of consuming countries, wants OPEC to raise actual output due to tighter supplies.

Tanaka said the IEA might respond if OPEC doesn't meet its expectations, which was seen as a veiled threat that the agency would coordinate an emergency release of stockpiles if OPEC doesn't act this week.

Barclays Capital analyst Yingxi Yu said crude prices will likely be neutral to bullish for the next few sessions pending OPEC's decision. "We're not super-bullish over the short term, but we are skewed to the upside. We do need a lot more crude--especially in the second half of the year--over and above what OPEC is currently producing."

The market "seems to be a bit more concerned about spare capacity, rather than increases in [OPEC's] production or quota," and with a "very limited amount of spare capacity, the market is going to go into next year, much tighter," Yu said.

Rising global consumption is likely to increase demand for more OPEC crude oil, especially in the second half of the year. The market will need up to 1.7 million barrels a day more crude from OPEC due to lower supply from Libya and growth in demand from the Middle East, Yu said. "Strong demand growth in the Mideast merits a look not just at OPEC's production capacity, but capacity to export."

The focus will be on Saudi Arabia, which with Libyan oil production possibly disrupted for the rest of the year will become the market's supplier of last resort. "Estimating the call on Saudi crude, alongside the call on OPEC, paints an even more bullish fundamental picture," Yu said.

Traders will also be tracking weekly oil inventory data from the Energy Information Administration due Wednesday for direction.

Crude-oil stockpiles are expected to drop 400,000 barrels, according to the mean forecast of 14 analysts in a Dow Jones Newswires poll. Gasoline stocks are likely to rise by 600,000 barrels, while stocks of distillates--diesel and heating oil--are expected to fall by 200,000 barrels.

Nymex reformulated gasoline blendstock for July--the benchmark gasoline contract--fell 174 points to $2.9745 a gallon, while July heating oil traded at $3.0555, 215 points lower. 