Oil price battle flares ahead of Opec showdown

The twice-yearly meeting of Opec in Vienna is set to be the most dramatic in a decade, as the 12-member cartel must decide whether to raise output and dampen prices for the first time in four years.

Opec, whose key members include Saudi Arabia, Iran and Kuwait, has immense influence over the market because it supplies 40pc of the world¡¦s oil and agrees on how much it will release.

The group is under pressure from the International Energy Agency and Western governments to release more oil, with prices above $100 per barrel since unrest began in the Middle East late last year.

London¡¦s Brent crude price is now 25pc higher than before the protests, trading above $115 per barrel and causing financial hardship for drivers.

Yesterday the difference between Brent and West Texas Intermediate was as wide as $18.29, highlighting expectations of more oil at the US hub and demand from emerging economies. 

Last night Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the US Federal Reserve, said that Opec has ¡§not shown much willingness to ramp up production¡¨ recently.

He said: ¡§OPEC¡¦s production of oil today remains about 3 million barrels per day below the peak level of mid-2008. With the demand for oil rising rapidly and the supply of crude stagnant, increases in oil prices are hardly a puzzle.¡¨

However, there are deep splits between member countries about whether a lower price would be a good development. Some countries, such as Saudi Arabia, can increase output and could therefore offset the lower price by higher sales. However, others have reached their limit and would suffer from lower prices.

Several sources said Saudi Arabia has already begun raising production recently, having long flouted official Opec quotas on production.

Earlier this spring, the market lost 1m barrels per day (bpd) when by Libya descended into civil war.

Saudi Arabia has already made up this amount to help provide the 87m bpd required for the world to be adequately supplied. Now the Gulf nation appears ready to lift output even further this month, even if Opec collectively decides this week not to raise production targets.

Saudi Arabia is expected to pump at least 500,000 bpd more to reach an output of 9.5m bpd, its highest output for three years.

The Middle Eastern nation is worried about the impact of a high oil price on economic growth. Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates have also spoken of the need to dampen prices, but others, particularly Iran, are more wary.

¡§There is a need for more supply in the market,¡¨ Mohammad al-Busairi, Kuwait¡¦s oil minister, said. ¡§I expect Opec to increase output during this meeting, but I am still unsure how much.¡¨

James Zhang, an analyst at Standard Bank, said raising production quotas may only bring actual output in line with the official figures.

¡§We expect Opec to raise its production quotas by between 1m barrels per day to 2m barrels per day, effectively rectifying most of the current overproduction. However, this should have limited impact on the physical oil market.¡¨
