OPEC can pump more oil 'if market needs': Angola

VIENNA ¡X OPEC can lift oil production "if the market needs" it, Angolan Oil Minister Jose Botelho de Vasconcelos said Tuesday on the eve of a crucial meeting eagerly awaited by global financial markets.

"We have to consider the supply, there are some geopolitical problems, the relation between (the) dollar and (the) euro," Angolan Oil Minister Jose Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters upon arrival.

"If the market needs that we pump more oil, I think we can do that. We are here, the OPEC, an open organization, we contribute when the market needs more oil, because our mission is to stabilize prices."

Questioned by reporters about whether he was expecting an output hike, Vasconcelos replied: "We will deal with this matter tomorrow. The situation in the oil market is more or less under control."

The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), whose 12 member nations pump 40 percent of the world's oil, meets Wednesday in Vienna for an output decision amid consumer calls for lower prices and deep divisions over Libya.

Oil prices skidded lower this week on worries about a faltering worldwide economic recovery and speculation that OPEC may raise supplies to compensate for dwindling output from Libya.

OPEC has left its production target at 24.84 million barrels per day (mbpd) since early 2009 but the cartel is pumping above that limit to compensate for lost supplies from Libya, which has been rocked by violent unrest.

Separately on Tuesday, an OPEC ministerial sub-committee met to consider the market outlook ahead of the regular production meeting.

"We studied ... the uncertainties that are related to the demand scenario, especially the low growth of OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development" countries," said Goni Musa Sheikh, the head of Nigeria's OPEC delegation, as he left the sub-committee.

He added that economic growth rates are "lower than expected" in the industrialised nations in the OECD.

The OPEC sub-committee has meanwhile recommended an output hike of between 1.0-1.5 million barrels per day, according to a source cited by Dow Jones Newswires.