SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡X Crude-oil futures closed higher Thursday, as a surprise decision by key oil producers to keep production quotas unchanged and a bigger-than-expected drop in U.S. crude inventories fed concerns about tighter supplies, lifting prices to nearly $102 a barrel.

Natural-gas futures, meanwhile, suffered their biggest single-session percentage decline in more than a month after a U.S. government showed supplies rose more than expected last week.

Light, sweet crude for July delivery CL1N -1.22%  gained $1.19, or 1.2%, to settle at $101.93 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It touched a high of $102.44 earlier in the trading session. 

On Wednesday, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries could not reach a consensus on increasing production and kept official output targets unchanged.

The outcome spurred a rally in oil prices Wednesday, sending prices roughly 2% higher. Read more about the OPEC meeting.

Separately on Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported a 4.8 million-barrel decline in crude-oil inventories for the week ended June 3. Analysts polled by Platts had expected a fall of around 1.5 million barrels. Read more about OPEC and the EIA in Wednesday¡¦s story. 

OPEC had failed to come to a consensus over the production targets for this year, raising concerns over a further rise in oil prices, which in turn would ¡§adversely impact¡¨ global growth, said analysts at ICICI Bank, in a note to clients.

In response to the failed OPEC talks, oil consuming nations have said that they might be forced to dip into the emergency stocks, they said, though ¡§even as Saudi Arabia failed to convince the other members to raise production, the biggest exporter is expected to raise its own supplies to help stabilize prices.¡¨

Edward Meir, senior commodity analyst at MF Global wasn't surprised by the upward price reaction to OPEC¡¦s decision, but also said he doesn¡¦t think that this is a turning point for a sustained push higher.

He expects the bounce in oil prices to be short-lived.

Demand is slowing anyway, and ¡§OPEC¡¦s hawks may be right in that the market may be somewhat oversupplied for the moment,¡¨ he said. Read related story on Arab oil and break-even prices.

U.S. economic data Thursday showed that the number of jobless Americans who sought unemployment benefits rose slightly last week. Separate data showed that the trade deficit narrowed sharply in April. Read about jobless claims.
Natural gas sinks

Among the energy futures, natural gas was the lone decliner Thursday.

July natural gas NG11N +0.54%  declined 17 cents, or 3.6%, to finish at $4.674 per million British thermal units. Prices haven¡¦t fallen by that much since May 5, when they sank 6.7%.

The Energy Information Administration reported an increase of 80 billion cubic feet in the week ended June 3. Analysts polled by Platts had expected an increase between 74 and 78 billion cubic feet.

¡§To be sure, very hot temperatures in the Southeast and Northeast are forcing households and businesses to turn on their air conditioners more than they usually do during this time of year,¡¨ said Chris Lafakis, an economist at Moody¡¦s Analytics in a report to clients. ¡§But investors¡¦ expectations got a little bit ahead of reality, and as such, prices are falling.¡¨

In other energy trading Thursday, July gasoline RB1N -0.50%   advanced 6 cents, or 2.1%, to end at $3.04 a gallon. July heating oil HO1N -0.56%  tacked on 4 cents, or 1.4%, to close at $3.14 a gallon. 