Oil edges higher as OPEC meeting looms
EIA ups world oil consumption estimates for 2011

OPEC member countries meet Wednesday in Vienna, and most analysts expect a rise for the cartel・s official output targets. Read more on OPEC.

Light, sweet crude oil for July delivery CL1N -2.95%  added 8 cents, or 0.1%, to settle at $99.09 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That broke a spell of two losing sessions. 

On Monday, oil settled at its lowest level since May 23, as recent lackluster economic data reignited jitters about global energy appetites and expectations around an increase in OPEC quotas surfaced.

：We・ve had a sea change in the last couple of days： regarding the outcome for the OPEC meeting, said Matt Smith, an analyts with Summit Energy in Kentucky.

Up until last week most analysts believed OPEC would keep its quota largely unchanged or only slight higher.

：Now it looks they are looking to raise it and that・s filtering in through oil prices,； Smith said.

A weaker dollar prevented any deep losses, he added.

Crude held to losses after the U.S. Department of Energy・s Energy Information Association released its short-term outlook calling for more demand this year.

The EIA said demand will grow by 1.7 million barrels per day in 2011, about 300,000 barrels a day higher than the agency・s last-month forecast.

The estimate is due to higher expectations ：of consumption for electricity generation in China, Japan and the Middle East,； the EIA said.

The agency projected world consumption will increase by 1.6 million barrels a day in 2012, unchanged from last month・s outlook.

The EIA also estimated supplies from non-OPEC countries to increase by an average of about 590,000 barrels a day in 2011, and supplies from OPEC members to decline by 370,000 barrels a day. 

It added it assumes about half of Libya・s production will resume by the end of 2012. Output from the North African country has ground to a halt as forces for and against Col. Moammar Gadhafi have battled for control of the country since February.