Saudis seek higher Opec output quotas

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/57ed5f16-912c-11e0-9668-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Oy0ysPtq

Opec¡¦s oil ministers are expected to raise their output quotas when they meet in Vienna on Wednesday, but analysts cautioned that this would not necessarily translate into more supply for the market.

Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the oil producers¡¦ cartel, will propose the first upward revision of quotas for almost four years, with the support of Kuwait and probably the United Arab Emirates. 

Please respect FT.com's ts&cs and copyright policy which allow you to: share links; copy content for personal use; & redistribute limited extracts. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights or use this link to reference the article - http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/57ed5f16-912c-11e0-9668-00144feab49a.html#ixzz1Oy10eICd

Those countries assess that high oil prices are damaging their interests by harming the global economy and curbing future demand.

Last month, the International Energy Agency said there was a ¡§clear, urgent need for additional supplies¡¨ from Opec. A barrel of Brent crude, the most important benchmark, sold for $116.78 on Tuesday, compared with an average of $80 last year.

Mohammed al-Hamli, the UAE¡¦s oil minister, warned of a still tighter market. ¡§We have to meet and look at the numbers before we decide. We need to really look beyond the second quarter ¡V it¡¦s going to be tight,¡¨ he said in Vienna.

The most relevant number is the projected ¡§call¡¨ on Opec¡¦s crude. As the refinery maintenance season ends, this figure is expected to climb in the course of the summer. Opec¡¦s usually cautious secretariat estimates that the ¡§call¡¨ will rise by 2.1m barrels per day between the second and third quarters, meaning that inventories will decline by 1.1m b/d if output stays unchanged.

Saudi Arabia and its allies believe this requires higher production, particularly as Libya¡¦s civil war has removed a net 1.3m b/d from the market. The kingdom¡¦s Rabigh refinery, able to process 400,000 barrels of crude per day, will return to service later in June after maintenance. This alone may necessitate more Saudi production.

¡§They will increase quotas probably by between 1m and 2m barrels per day,¡¨ said Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst at Barclays Capital.

Opec¡¦s present constraints bind 11 members ¡V Iraq is still exempt ¡V to produce no more than 24.85m b/d. In practice, the countries in the system pumped 26.15m b/d in April, according to the IEA, or 1.3m b/d over the limit.

If quotas are raised by anything up to 1.3m b/d, they would only formalise the existing level of overproduction, without allowing a real increase in -supply.

Output figures for May are still being compiled, but they are believed to be higher. The level of overproduction last month was some 1.59m b/d, according to Johannes Benigni, managing director of JBC Energy, a consultancy.

If so, a rise in quotas of 2m b/d could translate into a modest increase in real production of just over 400,000 b/d.

Ms Sen predicted that any rise would probably be ¡§on the lower side¡¨ of the 1m-2m b/d range.

Pointing to the imminent return of Rabigh refinery, she added that higher Saudi output would be ¡§mainly for domestic consumption¡¨. If so, more barrels from the kingdom would not necessarily enter the international market.

Saudi Arabia is believed to need an oil price of some $90 per barrel to balance its budget, compared with $75 last year. The ¡§break-even¡¨ level is believed to have risen in most Opec countries ¡V and their willingness to tolerate high oil prices has adjusted accordingly.

¡§The threshold of tolerance is a good $25 higher than it was last year,¡¨ said Ms Sen.

Agreement today is far from assured. Iran holds the rotating Opec presidency and Mohammed Aliabadi, the acting oil minister, will chair the meeting. Tehran has already voiced its opposition to raising quotas, supported by Venezuela and Iraq.

Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2011. You may share using our article tools. Please don't cut articles from FT.com and redistribute by email or post to the web.