OPEC looks ready to agree on a production hike

OPEC¡¦s committee has recommended an increase in output, according to Dow Jones Newswires. Delegations from Algeria, Kuwait, Nigeria and the OPEC Secretariat gathered in Vienna Tuesday for a meeting of the ministerial monitoring subcommittee ahead of Wednesday¡¦s summit. 

Still, uncertainty continued to plague the oil market Tuesday, sending crude-futures prices CL1N -2.95%   lower in New York. Read about the action in crude.

¡§OPEC faces two major hurdles at this meeting,¡¨ said James Williams, an energy economist at WTRG Economics. It needs to decide by how much to increase production and how to ¡§apportion an increase¡¨ among the members, since all but Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates are at capacity.

¡§Those members calling for no increase are those who can¡¦t increase their production,¡¨ Williams said.

All but Libya are producing oil above their quotas, he said. This problem is typically resolved by ¡§resetting quotas to current production plus some percentage,¡¨ but only Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and UAE have any extra capacity, so higher quotas for the rest would be meaningless. Read about why OPEC¡¦s meeting won¡¦t be routine.

Saudi Arabia plans to lift oil output sharply in June regardless of what policy OPEC adopts at Wednesday¡¦s meeting, according to a report from Reuters Tuesday.

The country expects to lift output by more than 500,000 barrels a day in June, a senior Gulf industry official familiar with Saudi oil policy told Reuters.

Earlier Tuesday, Kuwait¡¦s Oil Minister Mohammad Al-Busairi said he expects OPEC to decide on a production increase, citing the need for more supply in the market to satisfy strong demand, according to various news reports.

But Iran¡¦s OPEC governor, Muhammad Ali Khatibi, said Saturday in an interview with Dow Jones Newswires that while he expects a production boost to be the most probable outcome, producers should be cautious before putting more oil in the market, which he refers to as ¡§balanced.¡¨ Read more about Khatibi¡¦s comments.

Saudi officials are circulating a plan to boost OPEC output by at least 1 million barrels a day and up to 1.5 million at the group¡¦s meeting Wednesday, OPEC delegates said. Read about Iraq¡¦s opposition to a hike .
Time for change?

Any official change to output quotas would be the first in more than two years. OPEC has left the quota for 11 of the cartel¡¦s members unchanged at 24.845 million barrels per day since January of 2009.

Members, however, have been producing oil well above that official target.

The 11 OPEC members bound by quotas pumped an average of 26.18 million barrels per day in April ¡X more than 1.3 million above the set target, according to a Platts survey of OPEC, oil industry officials and analysts released on May 9.

¡§If the cartel merely acknowledges that its quota is 1.4 million barrels per day under what is actually being produced, and passes that on as an ¡¥increase,¡¦ then this would not result in any additional barrels being brought on,¡¨ Edward Meir, senior commodity analyst at MF Global, said in a note to clients.

¡§Such a stance may arguably be somewhat constructive for the market,¡¨ he said. ¡§However, prices will fall even faster if the cartel embraces a possible Saudi proposal to put through additional barrels over and above the 1.4 million excess that already exits over the official quota.¡¨

OPEC¡¦s basket of 12 crudes stood at $110.11 on Monday, down from $111.20 on May 31. Futures prices have fallen below $99 a barrel but are still around 8% higher year to date.

The opening session of the OPEC meeting will begin at 10 a.m. in Vienna Wednesday, with a closed session conducted at 11 a.m., followed by a press conference and decision announcement at 4 p.m. local time. 