AFC championship: Who has edge, Pats or Ravens?

The AFC title game will match the Baltimore Ravens (13-4) and Patriots (14-3) in New England. Two years ago, Baltimore romped at Foxboro 33-14 in the wild-card round.

Baltimore finished off a 9-0 home record with a 20-13 victory Sunday over first-time playoff qualifier Houston.

NFL playoffs: Ravens top Texans 20-13

Ed Reed's interception late in the fourth quarter sealed it, and the Ravens didn't commit a penalty or have a turnover. Lardarius Webb had two picks and Joe Flacco threw for two TDs.

"We have won in New England," Flacco said. "They are one of the teams, like us, that's tough to beat at home. We know how tough it is to go into a place like that, a place like here, and win a football game. So we're going to have to make sure we prepare well all week and bring our `A' game up there."

New England routed Denver 45-10, silencing Tebowmania as Tom Brady tied an NFL mark with six touchdown passes and set another with five in the first half.

Patriots rout Broncos 45-10

There's also a seeming mismatch at quarterback in this game. Brady's sensational season, with the second-most yards passing in NFL history behind only what Drew Brees managed in 2011, was somewhat overshadowed by Brees and Aaron Rodgers ¡X even by Tebow. But he sure took center stage against overmatched Denver.

But, as CBSSports.com's Ryan Wilson points out, the Ravens aren't the Broncos.

"They're one of the best units in the league and they're not intimidated by the Pats' high-powered offense," Wilson writes. "In 2009, Baltimore went to New England in the AFC wild-card round, roughed up Brady, and left Foxboro with a 33-14 victory. The difference in this game will likely come down to the Pats' O vs. the Ravens' D."

"We know we have a big test next week," Ravens star linebacker Ray Lewis said. "Tom is playing excellent up there, and what they did to the Broncos ... I think they sent a message to whoever was coming up there. So, we've got our hands full and we've got to go up and get ready to play in the AFC championship."

New England rarely has faced a defense as strong as Baltimore's this season, however. Indeed, the Patriots lost to the best defense it opposed, Pittsburgh's.

If the Ravens can keep the game tight behind Lewis, Reed, Terrell Suggs and the staunch D, they'll hope their QB, Joe Flacco, can come up with enough big plays to get them to their first Super Bowl since January 2001. The Patriots have been vulnerable in pass defense, but their prolific offense has offset most problems.

"I always say there is a right way to do things, there is a wrong way to do things and there is just the Ravens' way of doing things," Suggs said. "It wasn't pretty but we're not really a pretty team. We got the W and now it's on to the AFC championship."

NFC championship: Who has edge, 49ers or Giants?