Punt return blunder proves fatal for 49ers

SAN FRANCISCO ¡V All season long, the San Francisco 49ers' stellar special teams had proven Oscar-worthy in what had been shaping up as a season movies are made about. But without one of their leading men in Sunday night's NFC Championship Game, the Niners' once-golden season concluded with a tarnish in their 20-17 overtime loss to the New York Giants.

Subbing for return ace Ted Ginn Jr., who was sidelined by a knee injury suffered in the Niners' divisional round victory vs. the New Orleans Saints a week earlier, Kyle Williams committed a gaffe that will be long remembered in these parts.

After the San Francisco defense had forced New York to punt for the second time in sudden death, Williams gathered in Steve Weatherford's boot at his own 19-yard line and wove 5 yards upfield before Giants rookie Jacquian Williams jarred the ball loose. Devin Thomas recovered for the Giants, and Lawrence Tynes kicked his second Super Bowl-launching field goal in the last five seasons from 31 yards.

    MORE: Giants top 49ers in OT
    PHOTOS: Best images from the NFL playoffs
    VIDEO: Giants - 49ers highlights

"It was just one of those situations where I caught the ball, tried to head upfield, tried to make a play and it ended up for the worse," said Williams.

"You hate to be the last guy that had the ball, to give it up that way in that fashion and to lose a game of this magnitude."
USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!

To get the latest sports news from USA TODAY, including game results, columns and features, follow us on Twitter at @USATODAYSports.

The 49ers were in a dogfight the entire game but fell one solid drive of their sixth Super Bowl berth and first in 17 years.

"It's tough. It's like a roller-coaster ride in the playoffs," said 49ers safety Donte Whitner after getting whiplash in his first postseason ride.

"So many highs, so many lows. ¡K We're gonna think about this for a minute."

However Whitner was one of several players who immediately defended Williams, who also muffed a fumble with 11:17 in the fourth quarter - a mistake that led to the Giants go-ahead less than three minutes later - and called for a fair catch at his own 29 with 1:47 left in regulation rather than trying to jump - start an offense that merely needed to move into the normally generous range of record-setting kicker David Akers, who connected for 44 field goals in the regular season.

"I just told him we're all in it together," said all-pro linebacker Patrick Willis of Williams. "I'd put him back out there again."

Ginn ranked among the league leaders in punt and kickoff returns in 2011 and scored two touchdowns in that phase. His excellence relegated Williams to just six return opportunities all season.

Said quarterback Alex Smith: "I know it's tough for him. He'll be thinking about those two punt returns for quite awhile.

But Smith, who sported the blue-collar plumber's shirt that had become emblematic of a team that slugged its way to its first NFC title game in 14 years, was hardly pointing a finger and cited the 49ers' horrific conversion rate on third downs (1-for-13, 8%) as a decisive factor.

"Awful on third down," Said Smith. "I think it was the difference."

Tight end Vernon Davis was nearly the difference practically all by himself even though he caught just two passes in the first four quarters, touchdown grabs of 73 and 28 yards. He accounted for most of San Francisco's points and nearly one-third of its offense, but he also had 100% sympathy for Williams.

"Anyone can have a tough game," he said. "I told Kyle, 'It's alright, it's alright.' "

But Davis, also in his maiden playoff voyage nearly six years after the Niners drafted him sixth overall in 2006, was also struck by the finality of playoff sudden death.

"You get one shot to seize the moment," he said. "We let it go."