Special teams play sets up Giants for win

SAN FRANCISCO ¡V Quarterback Eli Manning was the master of fourth quarter and late rallies in the regular season. He was the New York Giants headliner in postseason. But this time, he got two major assists in crunchtime from punt coverage man (and bit player) Devin Thomas as the Giants clinched their fifth trip to the Super Bowl.

Thomas recovered a muffed punt in the final quarter to help the Giants into overtime. Then he recovered a fumbled punt in the extra period to set up the winning 31-yard field goal by Lawrence Tynes in the Giants' 20-17 victory against the San Francisco 49ers in the NFC Championship Game.

That sends New York into a Super Bowl rematch with the AFC champion New England Patriots. In the 2007 season, Manning and the Giants beat the previously perfect Patriots to win the title.

    MORE: Giants top 49ers in OT
    PHOTOS: Best images from the NFL playoffs
    VIDEO: Giants - 49ers highlights

"We know they're a great team," Manning said of the Patriots. "Celebrate tonight, have fun, then start getting prepared and go ¡K play our best football."

Though sacked six times, belted often, muddied and soaked on a rainy day at Candlestick Park, Manning threw for 316 yards and two TDs. His primary receiver, Victor Cruz, had 10 catches for 142 yards.
USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!

To get the latest sports news from USA TODAY, including game results, columns and features, follow us on Twitter at @USATODAYSports.

"To get back up the number of times he (Manning) was hit, it tells you the kind of courage, the kind of player, the kind of leader he is," Giants coach Tom Coughlin said. "His performance tonight certainly proved that."

Manning threw for 4,933 yards and had 29 touchdown passes this season. An NFL-record 15 of those TD passes came in the final quarter, and he led five late-game winning drives. He had thrown six TD passes in two previous playoff wins.

But the outcome Sunday hinged on the punting game with both of the crucial 49ers miscues made by return man Kyle Williams. Coughlin said he had a hunch this game would be decided by someone who had gotten little acclaim and had not been regarded as a difference maker.

"I felt someone like that would step up and make a big play. It was needed," Coughlin said. "This was a game of field position and a game of turnovers, and we needed the special teams to help us."

Enter Thomas, backup wide receiver, fourth year pro from Michigan State and coverage man on punts.

With San Francisco leading 14-10 early in the final quarter, the Giants were forced to punt from their own 15. But Steve Weatherford's 47-yard punt was muffed by Williams and recovered by Thomas at the 49ers 49. Initially, the field officials ruled Williams had not touched the ball. But a Giants replay challenge showed the ball grazed his leg.

The Giants got the ball at the 29. Manning capitalized with a 17-yard touchdown pass to Mario Manningham on third-and-15. The Giants led 17-14.

A 49ers field goal tied it at 17 with 5:39 left. The Giants got three more possessions in regulation to no avail. Overtime.

The Giants punted on their second possession in overtime. Williams fumbled when hit by coverage linebacker Jacquian Williams. Thomas recovered at the 49ers 24. Tynes booted his winning field goal with 7:54 elapsed in overtime.

"It just seems like it's a team of destiny," Giants defensive end Justin Tuck said. "Pretty much like '07."