Brady misses practice (left shoulder)

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- Just after the New England Patriots received good news on tight end Aaron Hernandez, quarterback Tom Brady did not practice Wednesday because of a left shoulder injury, the team announced.

Brady was a full participant in last Wednesday's practice with the left shoulder ailment before being removed from the injury report last Thursday. Brady injured the nonthrowing shoulder in a Dec. 24 game against the Miami Dolphins. The injury did not result in him missing any game action.

He had been present at a news conference earlier in the day and was the only Patriots player not in attendance at practice. Among the 14 players limited at practice was Hernandez, who the team confirmed suffered a concussion in Saturday night's AFC divisional playoff victory over the Denver Broncos.

Hernandez proclaimed himself "ready to play" after leaving Saturday's game with the head injury and reiterated that before Wednesday's practice.

"I feel great," Hernandez said Wednesday. "Ready to play."

Patriots coach Bill Belichick didn't shed nearly as much light on the injury when asked about Hernandez earlier in the day. 

"We'll see how everybody is today going out there," Belichick said. "I think everybody is today better than they were yesterday, yesterday better than they were Monday. The guys that are banged up are all working hard to get treatment and trying to get back out there. We'll just have to see how it goes."

Offensive lineman Nate Solder was also among those limited with a concussion. It is not clear when he suffered the injury. Solder was not listed on last week's report but did suffer a concussion earlier this season.

The other 12 Patriots limited were Deion Branch (knee), Marcus Cannon (ankle), Patrick Chung (knee), Dane Fletcher (thumb), James Ihedigbo (shoulder), Kyle Love (ankle), Logan Mankins (knee), Rob Ninkovich (hip), Brandon Spikes (knee), Sebastian Vollmer (back/foot), Wes Welker (knee) and Tracy White (abdomen).

Safety Ed Reed was the only player on the Ravens' injury report. His practice participation was limited by an ankle injury.

Media members were present for stretching and agility drills Wednesday at Gillette Stadium. Players were in light shoulder pads for the frigid workout, which was held on the lower practice fields as wind whipped through.

The health of the multitalented Hernandez is of primary importance to the Patriots this week. Not only did Hernandez catch four passes for 55 yards and a touchdown against the Broncos, he was also the Patriots' leading rusher, lining up in the backfield on a number of plays and running five times for 61 yards. He broke off a 43-yarder in the first quarter that set up the Patriots' first score.