Patriots play bend-don't-break defense

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ¡V Rabbit ears would not cut it for survival on Bill Belichick's latest attempt to build another championship defense.

For the bulk of the season, the defense has been derided by critics as the weak link that could prevent the New England Patriots from winning a fourth Super Bowl crown.

"I kind of let it go in one ear and out the other," linebacker Rob Ninkovich says. "Because if you let it affect you, you're letting them get the best of you. So I don't listen to it."

    MORE: Ranking the playoff defenses
    PHOTOS: Best images from the NFL playoffs

During the regular season, the Patriots ranked next-to-last in total yards allowed and yielded the second-most passing yards in NFL history (4,703), edged out by the just-eliminated Green Bay Packers. That, and the fact that 10 quarterbacks put up 300-yard games on the Patriots, makes the unit an easy target.

Yet the statistics might be a bit skewed. Opponents typically have to pass heavily to stay in games against the Tom Brady-armed Patriots. And the defense, led by linebacker Jerod Mayo's 103 tackles, had a bend-but-not-totally-break tint. It led the AFC with 34 takeaways and ranked 15th in allowing 21.4 points per game.
USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!

To get the latest sports news from USA TODAY, including game results, columns and features, follow us on Twitter at @USATODAYSports.

"At the end of the day, it's about wins, and we were able to get 13," said Ninkovich, referring to the 13-3 mark that earned a No. 1 seed.

The defense might have had its most complete game of the season against Tim Tebow and the Denver Broncos. Playing fast and swarming, it collected five sacks among the 14 plays that went for negative yards.

It has helped that safety Patrick Chung and rush linebacker Brandon Spikes, both of whom missed eight games with injuries, have returned.

When someone asked Belichick to assess the progress, the coach sounded a lot like he did in Week 12 or Week 8. He said, "They've improved over the course of the season."

It has been a work in progress testing the resourcefulness that belies Belichick's reputation as one of the most creative defensive minds in the NFL's modern era. He has long embraced versatility , starting games with a 3-4 base scheme one week, then switching to a 4-3 look the next.

This season, injuries and ineffectiveness added reasons to tinker. Just two defenders started all 16 games, Ninkovich and interior lineman Vince Wilfork. Four others who started at least one game are on injured reserve, the most significant being defensive end Andre Carter. His 10 sacks tied for the team lead.

The secondary has had eight starting combinations and the use of two receivers, Julian Edelman and Matthew Slater, as extra defensive backs.

Too often, though, the secondary has been victimized by big plays that expose breakdowns. Including the playoffs, the Pats have been hit for 22 passing plays of at least 30 yards.

"The biggest thing I've learned this season? It's a whole bunch," said second-year backup safety Sergio Brown. "But one thing for sure: You have to believe what you see."

Now comes Baltimore's offense, which revolves around Ray Rice (who rushed for 159 yards, with 83-yard TD run on the first snap of a 33-14 wild-card playoff win here two years ago) but still takes its shots deep with quarterback Joe Flacco.

"He's not Aaron Rodgers," former receiver Troy Brown, now an analyst for WEEI in Boston, said of Flacco. "And I don't think they have the offensive philosophy to take advantage of the defense."

Ninkovich can tell you all about his unit's mind-set: Start fast. That happened with a 35-7 halftime edge against Denver.

"The last three weeks of the season, I felt like we came out sluggish," he said. "In the playoffs, you can't do that. That was just a big emphasis, defensively starting fast and ¡K letting our offense play."