Belichick, Brady setting themselves apart
Trip to Indianapolis would give coach-quarterback combination record five Super Bowl appearances

Is the Patriots' coach-quarterback combination of Bill Belichick and Tom Brady the best of all time?

They have made four Super Bowl appearances together, tying them atop the NFL record books with three Hall of Fame tandems: the Cowboys' Tom Landry and Roger Staubach, the Bills' Marv Levy and Jim Kelly and the Steelers' Chuck Noll and Terry Bradshaw.

If Belichick and Brady make it to Indianapolis for Super Bowl XLVI, they will be alone on that particular mountaintop.

Brady, meanwhile, has another record within reach. The Patriots have won 15 postseason games with him at quarterback, one shy of the NFL-record 16 won by the 49ers with Joe Montana. Brady's victory against the Broncos last weekend moved him into sole possession of second place ahead of Bradshaw and John Elway.

No average Joe

A lot of people knock the Ravens' Joe Flacco for being more of a game manager than a quarterback who takes his team on his shoulders, but there's no denying the Ravens have won a lot of games with him at the helm.

Counting the postseason, the Ravens are 49-23 with Flacco starting. One more victory and Flacco would become the first quarterback to win 50 games in his first four years as a starter.

The Patriots won six playoff games in Brady's first four seasons. The Ravens have won five with Flacco, just as the Steelers won five over that span with Ben Roethlisberger and the Rams won five with Kurt Warner.

Reed and react

Ravens safety Ed Reed made headlines during the week when he said in a Sirius Radio interview that Flacco was "rattled a little bit" by the Texans' defense in the divisional game.

Reed has done his share of defensive rattling over the years with eight postseason interceptions. If he were to pick off a pass against the Patriots, Reed would tie Ronnie Lott, Bill Simpson and Charlie Waters for the most in NFL history.

Reed is also 66 interception-return yards shy of passing the Eagles' Asante Samuel (227) for the most in postseason history.

Another view

ESPN's Tedy Bruschi, former Pro Bowl linebacker for the Patriots: "That middle of the field for that Patriots offense, to me that's the whole thing, to see what the Baltimore Ravens can do against that, how they match up with (Rob) Gronkowski and (Aaron) Hernandez. At one point a defense has got to say, (receivers) Deion Branch and Tiquan Underwood and Chad Ochocinco (are) going to have to beat us, and you've got to take away the middle of the field, and I think that's going to be a goal of the Baltimore Ravens defense this Sunday."

Farmer's pick

With all this talk about Joe Flacco being a game manager, don't be surprised if the Ravens come out and try to spread it out and throw. They were very conservative against the Texans, running the offense through running back Ray Rice, but they can't be cautious against the Patriots the way Tom Brady & Co. can score.

Patriots 27, Ravens 20.