
Kragthorpe: NFL breakdown: Ravens boring, but effective 

Tribune columnist Kurt Kragthorpe introduces the NFL's conference finalists. Today: Baltimore Ravens. To come: New England Patriots, San Francisco 49ers, New York Giants.

Team's theme ¡E Baltimore keeps coming back to the NFL playoffs with the usual approach of a great defense and a barely adequate offense. Can the Ravens break through to the Super Bowl with that formula?

How they got here ¡E The Ravens went 12-4 to share the AFC North title and earn a first-round bye, then defeated Houston 20-13 in the divisional round.

Super Bowl-bound if ¡E Baltimore's defense can hold quarterback Tom Brady and New England's offense to reasonable numbers, and if the Ravens' own offense plays much better than it did against Houston, exploiting the Patriots' No. 31-ranked defense in ways that Denver could not.

Homeward-bound if ¡E Brady gets hot. There's no way the Ravens can keep up if New England scores in the 30s in this game, as the Patriots did last weekend ¡X in the first half.

Biggest variable ¡E Joe Flacco. The Ravens' quarterback was sacked five times by Houston and did just enough to help his team score 20 points, with big assists from the defense and special teams with four takeaways. Baltimore's offense gained only 227 total yards. Flacco is a serviceable QB for a perennial playoff team, but getting Baltimore to the Super Bowl is another issue.

Flacco passed for only 34 yards in a 33-14 playoff win at New England two years ago, but those were unusual circumstances. Thanks mostly to turnovers, the Ravens led 24-0 after the first quarter.

Best player ¡E Haloti Ngata, defensive tackle. The Highland High School product is an All-Pro performer and the anchor of the NFL's No. 3-ranked defense, the only problem being that New England's all-out passing scheme will negate his run-stuffing ability. He's a capable pass rusher, though, with five sacks in 2011.

Best player you've never heard of ¡E Sam Koch, punter. He was outstanding against Houston, and the Ravens needed every yard he gave them. But if he has to punt nine times again Sunday, Baltimore will be in trouble.

Local connections ¡E In addition to Ngata, who chose Oregon over BYU after starring for Highland, the Ravens have representatives of Utah's three Football Bowl Subdivision schools. Former Ute defensive end Paul Kruger recorded 5.5 sacks in his third pro season. Ex-BYU tight end Dennis Pitta caught 40 passes in his second year. Pitta's position coach, Wade Harman, was a Utah State linebacker. Craig Ver Steeg, a former Utah offensive coordinator, is an offensive assistant for Baltimore.

Reasons to cheer for them ¡E The Ravens have not appeared in a Super Bowl since winning the championship 12 years ago, when former BYU player Brian Billick was their coach. They've toned down their brash act under coach John Harbaugh and have become more disciplined, with no penalties against Houston. For Jazz fans, Ravens running back Ray Rice and Utah forward C.J. Miles say they're as close as brothers.

Reasons to cheer against them ¡E They're not exactly entertaining. Surprisingly, the Ravens ranked 15th in the NFL in total offense, but they rely mostly on their running game, unlike New England's creative scheme.