Kraft calls Patriots ：extended family・・

Robert Kraft is headed to another AFC championship game in a season like no other in his 18 years as owner of the New England Patriots.

He lost his ：sweetheart・・ when his wife, Myra, died in July and found an ：extended family・・ in the locker room and offices at Gillette Stadium.

：The team has been my savior. I・ve had my kids, my four sons and eight grandchildren and this team has been kind of my extended family,・・ Kraft said Friday, two days before the Patriots play in their sixth AFC title game in 11 years.

As they・ve done all season, every player on the team will wear a dark blue patch with white capital letters ：MHK・・ on his jersey when he takes the field against the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday. It・s a reminder of the philanthropic woman, Myra Hiatt Kraft, who was married to Kraft for 48 years and had such an effect on the Patriots that they dedicated their season to her.

During his news conference Friday, Kraft paused and appeared to choke up.

After their next to last regular-season game, a 27-24 win over Miami, the players presented Kraft with a painting showing a group of helmeted Patriots raising their joined hands skyward toward those three initials.

：I pinch myself that I have the privilege of owning this franchise,・・ Kraft said. ：We have such a great group of young men and they・ve been great to me, really great. Sometimes a few of them come through and they touch the patch and say, `That one was for Mama.・ I hope we keep it going.・・

Five days after his wife died of cancer at 68, Kraft appeared with Commissioner Roger Goodell and others at the announcement on July 25 that the lockout was over. At one point, Indianapolis center Jeff Saturday, a key negotiator, put his arm around Kraft and said the deal would not have been reached without him.

：I think Roger Goodell and our committee and I had a privilege of working on that. We came very close to having a situation (where we would) miss games,・・ Kraft said Friday. ：I・m happy that we had reasonable people on both sides so we could work it out. I think a lot of people were concerned what it meant to the season without having the offseason. I think it probably worked to the advantage of a lot of veteran players.

：I・m pretty happy and proud that we・re able to have this season the way it is.・・

Before Kraft bought the team in 1994, the Patriots had a 4-6 playoff record and no Super Bowl championships. Since then, they・re 18-9 in the postseason with three titles.

In 2000, Bill Belichick was hired as coach and Tom Brady was drafted. The Patriots went 5-11 that season but have won at least 10 games in 10 of the 11 seasons since then.