In the massive parking lots surrounding Gillette Stadium, there is no plaque or monument to mark the spot where the most significant moment in the history of the New England Patriots took place.

Only concrete. Lots of it.

When construction crews paved over the nearby site where antiquated Foxborough Stadium was demolished in 2002, they opted not to honour the small chunk of real estate where the now-famous Tuck Rule was called.

Maybe they should have. Even a small painted ：X； would have sufficed.

Because, when you look back at history, the Tuck Rule may have been the single most important factor in the making of the New England Patriots dynasty of today.

As the Patriots gathered for practice on Thursday, they were reminded by the media that it was the 10th anniversary of the famous Tuck Rule game between the Patriots and visiting Oakland Raiders, the final contest ever played at Foxborough Stadium.

Back on Jan. 19, 2002, the Patriots, trailing 13-10 in their divisional round playoff matchup, were marching into field goal range when Raiders DB Charles Woodson appeared to rip the ball away from Pats quarterback Tom Brady. With driving sheets of snow having blanketed the field with about eight centimetres of the white stuff, it appeared the Raiders had recovered the ball with just 1:50 remaining, pretty much squishing New England・s hopes.

Recalled Brady: ：When Charles hit me and I dropped the ball, I thought, ：Man, this isn・t looking good.・ ：

Not so fast.

Despite having been ruled a fumble, the play went to replay. After reviewing it, referee Walt Coleman considered it an obvious example of the Tuck Rule and called it an incomplete pass, allowing the Pats to maintain possession and boot the tying field goal, setting the stage for a huge 16-13 victory in overtime.

According to NFL Rule 3, Section 22, Article 2, Note 2: ：When (an offensive) player is holding the ball to pass it forward, any intentional forward movement of his arm starts a forward pass, even if the player loses possession of the ball as he is attempting to tuck it back toward his body. Also, if the player has tucked the ball into his body and then loses possession, it is a fumble.；

Confused? Understandable. A stupid rule? Very. Are the Raiders still bitter? Certainly late owner Al Davis was, right up to the day he died.

：It was a fumble,； Hall of Famer Jerry Rice, a member of the Raiders at the time, told ESPN on Thursday. ：I looked at the official and said, ．Do you need glasses?・ ：

Oakland players certainly haven・t forgotten. And their rabid supporters certainly haven・t forgiven.

：Raider fans still let me hear about it,； Brady said.

Instead of seeing their season end, the Patriots, handed a second life thanks to the Tuck Rule, went on to beat the Raiders, the Steelers and then the high-flying St. Louis Rams in the Super Bowl.

It would be the first playoff victory by the Brady-Bill Belichick combination. Now, a decade later, New England・s 45-10 dismantling of the Denver Broncos on Saturday made The Pretty Boy and The Hoody the all-time winningest quarterback- coach duo in NFL post-season history with 15 career victories.

Would they have ever reached that milestone had they lost in that Foxborough blizzard 10 years ago? Debatable. Would they have gone on to win three Super Bowls? Doubtful.

More than anything else, the Cinderella title run of the 2001-02 Patriots gave Brady the confidence and swagger to develop into one of the all-time greats. Who knows? Had Brady lost against the Raiders in his first post-season start, maybe Drew Bledsoe, injured earlier in the season, gets back his starting job in training camp.

With a win over the Baltimore Ravens in the AFC championship game on Sunday, Brady will tie Joe Montana for the most all-time post-season wins with 16. And if his Pats win the Super Bowl, he・ll tie Montana and Terry Bradshaw for the most rings won as a starting quarterback with four.

An amazing run for a Patriots Dynasty that was first ignited 10 years ago by a bad rule.

The Tuck Rule.

．WE・RE DOGS WITH NO LEASHES・

Despite receiving death threats over the years, Bernard Pollard says he will not apologize to ：pretty boy； Tom Brady.

In fact, the Batimore Ravens safety said he takes ：pride； in the hit he delivered on Brady during the opening game of the 2008 season, one that knocked the Patriots quarterback out for the season with a torn ACL in his knee.

：You got to look at it. That・s the pretty boy, that・s the man of the NFL, that・s ．Mr. Do It All,・ so everybody wants to hold that against me, but I don・t care,； Pollard told the Ravens team website.

The hit from Pollard, who was with the Kansas City Chiefs at the time, created what was known as the ：Brady Rule,； a piece of NFL legislation making it illegal to hit quarterbacks below the knee.

：We・re conscious of what they・re trying to do,； Pollard said. ：We・re conscious of the rules that they・re putting in. But at the end of the day, we・re going to play football.

：At the end of the day, you・ve got a second to think about how you・re going to tackle somebody. A lot of people don・t understand that. You have a second.；

Pollard said he will not be intimidated when his Ravens come to Gillette Stadium to take on Brady・s Patriots in the AFC championship game at Gillette Stadium on Sunday.

：We・re dogs with no leashes,； Pollard said. ：That・s how it is,

：We・re not trying to be malicious. We・re not malicious. We・re not trying to be dirty players, but this is the game. We tackle guys for a living. We know and understand that at any time you can go down, and that・s what happened.；

For his part, Brady down-played the incident when asked about facing Pollard on Thursday.

：Injuries are part of the game,； he said. ：You hate being injured. But we・ve both moved on.；

