New England Patriots Vs. Baltimore Ravens 1/22/12: John・s Free NFL Pick Against the Spread Free Football Picks

The final stop on the road to the Super Bowl in Indianapolis for the AFC champion is returning to Foxborough, Massachusetts for the first time since 2008. That year, the New England Patriots defeated the New York Jets 21-12.

This year, standing in the way of Bill Belichick and Tom Brady・s fifth trip to the Super Bowl is a beast in the Baltimore Ravens led by one of the best linebackers in the NFL Terrell Suggs.

Brady and New England had little trouble ending Tim Tebow・s miracle season, torching the Denver Broncos 45-10 with Brady posting 363 yards and tied the NFL postseason record with six touchdowns passes.

However, Baltimore boasts one of the top defenses in the league, finishing third in points (16.6) and yards (288.9) allowed per game. The key for New England is going to be if Brady stays upright and on his feet; a hard task against a defense that led the AFC with 48 sacks.

If Brady is kept clean, then New England could very easily put up their season average of 317.8 yards a game through the air. The duel threat at the tight end position with Rob Gronkowski and Aaron Hernandez is a load for any secondary in the NFL.

Gronkowski had 10 catches for 145 yards with three trips to the endzone, while Hernandez had four catches for 55 yards and one score. Hernandez probably would have added more to the total had he not left the game early with a head injury. Hernandez has been participating in practice this week and is expected to play on Sunday.

For the Ravens, the strategy is pretty simple, knock Brady to the ground and control the clock by letting Ray Rice run all over a poor New England run defense. The Patriots gave up 117.1 yards a game this year and Rice finished second in the league with 1,364 yards on the ground.

In last week・s divisional matchup against the Houston Texans, the Ravens rushed for only yards. Rice finished with just 60 yards on 21 carries, as quarterback Joe Flacco struggled to complete passes. In the 20-13 win over the Texans, Flacco ended with just 14 completions on 27 attempts for 176 yards and two touchdowns.

While his numbers are not impressive and his failure to throw the ball accurately made the game closer than it should have been, Flacco became the only quarterback to win a playoff game in each of his first four seasons. Flacco knows how to protect the football and give Baltimore・s defense a chance at keeping the Ravens in the game.

Regardless of how Flacco does play, the Ravens need Rice to have a repeat from his AFC Wild Card performance against the Patriots in Foxborough from two years ago. Rice led the Ravens to a 33-14 thumping of New England with 159 yards. The Ravens ran for 234 yards in the game.

The Ravens defense is good, but that is not rookie T.J Yates throwing the ball this Sunday.