Patriots advance to Super Bowl
Ravens' Cundiff misses tying 32-yard field in closing seconds

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ¡X When the Ravens' bid to return to the Super Bowl for the second time sailed wide left Sunday, it meant the Patriots would head to Indianapolis for their seventh NFL championship appearance, the fifth with Bill Belichick as coach and Tom Brady as quarterback.

With the Ravens trailing by three points, Billy Cundiff missed a 32-yard field goal with 11 seconds remaining and the Patriots escaped with a 23-20 victory Sunday at Gillette Stadium.

The AFC championship game came down to the bitter end for the second time in the last four years for the Ravens and they couldn't close the deal. Two plays after Ravens wide receiver Lee Evans was separated from the ball in the end zone by Sterling Moore, Cundiff missed the field goal.

Together, Belichick and Brady have won three of the four times they've reached the Super Bowl.

"Those guys fought all year, and just like today, it wasn't always perfect, but they fought to the final gun and we came out on top," said Belichick, whose team was undefeated going into Super Bowl XLII in 2008 when they were upset by the Giants 17-14.

The Ravens, meanwhile, head home with more questions than answers, although Ray Lewis, the Ravens' 36-year-old linebacker and captain, provided one big answer when he said after the game he would return next season: "Is this my last time as a Raven? Absolutely not."

Trailing by three points with 11:29 to play after Brady's 1-yard touchdown run on fourth down, the Ravens had three chances to either tie the game or score the go-ahead touchdown.

The first one ended with quarterback Joe Flacco getting intercepted by Brandon Spikes in Patriots territory. Then, after rookie cornerback Jimmy Smith picked off Brady in the end zone and returned it to the Ravens' 38, the Ravens, who opted not to attempt a game-tying 50-yard field goal, were stopped on fourth-and -6 from the Patriots' 33.

Then came a march down the field and Cundiff's miss from 32 yards out.

"Well, I (stunk) pretty bad today, but our defense saved us," Brady, who was 22 of 36 for 239 yards and two interceptions, said. "I'm going to try to go out and do a better job in a couple of weeks, but I'm proud of this team, my teammates."

Flacco, the first NFL quarterback to reach the playoffs in his first four seasons, played one of his best postseason games, completing 22 of 36 for 306 yards and two touchdowns.

The Patriots led 13-10 at halftime and then converted the opening kickoff of the third quarter into a field goal. It was a 14-play drive that covered 74 yards, but the Patriots had to settle for a 24-yard Stephen Gostkowski field goal when the Ravens stopped BenJarvus Green-Ellis on third-and-2 from the 6-yard line.

With his team trailing 16-10, Flacco responded, engineering an 11-play, 78-yard drive that ended with a 29-yard touchdown pass to Torrey Smith.

The Ravens then caught a big break when LaQuan Williams jarred the ball loose from Danny Woodhead on the ensuing kickoff, and Emanuel Cook recovered it. That resulted in a 39-yard field goal by Cundiff.

Brady moved the Patriots right down the field on a series of short passes. Then, on fourth-and-goal from the 1, the quarterback plunged over his center for a touchdown.