It's now or never for Ray Lewis and the Baltimore Ravens



Say what you want about Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis, and you probably do, there isn・t a player in the NFL that loves and takes as much pride in the game as he does.

He speaks with unmatched passion about his craft, delivering, with zeal, inspiring pre and post-game speeches to his teammates like an animated preacher speaking to his flock from the pulpit on a Sunday morning.

After trading his pads in for a really expensive suit, he approaches the podium for another sermon. This time, he speaks to the media about walking arm-and-arm as warriors through countless battles on the field. The same field that is Lewis・ church, his cathedral.

Lewis is done playing football for money. Sure, he gets a nice paycheck, but he puts on his helmet for one reason: to win another championship.

How many more times Lewis is willing to put his body through hell, that remains to be seen. But after watching him throughout another brutal season, I can・t help but think this is Lewis・ best and last chance at hoisting the Vince Lombardi Trophy.

：The only reason you play this game is for the opportunity to go to the Super Bowl,； Lewis said after an ugly win over the Houston Texans that earned the Ravens an AFC Championship berth in New England today.

：We have that opportunity right now. Whatever anybody wants to say about us, we are in position. There are two teams left in the AFC, just us and the Patriots.；

Lewis is a throwback. From the time I saw him at Miami -- ：The U； as it is affectionately called -- and throughout his terrorizing escapades in a Ravens uniform, he・s had an ability to alter a game and energize a stadium.

Even now, Lewis, though his skills are diminishing, finds ways to make impact plays that make others on the field watch with envy and amazement.

Just last week, Lewis looked like he was in his prime. Running back Arian Foster took a screen pass and was headed for a long gain at a crucial point in the game when Lewis closed and stuffed the Texans running back for a seven-yard loss that ended the drive.

：To me, it・s not any different than what he・s been doing,； Ravens head coach John Harbaugh said. ：He・s a great player. He・s Ray Lewis. He・s our leader, and I・m sure glad he・s on our side.；

For how long is anybody・s guess.

Lewis says he doesn・t think about retirement, and we believe him. He avoids the subject like a quarterback that is scrambling away from him on a blitz.

But you can hear a sense of urgency in his voice when he speaks of the postseason. Face it, he is 36, which is 65 in linebacker years, and even he knows that the odds are starting to get stacked against him.

：My kids challenge me in the weight room, they challenge me in sprints, they challenge me in everything,； Lewis said. ：So, it・s kind of hard to think about Father Time.

：I don・t have time to think about [retirement]. When it・s over, it・s over. People have to appreciate that great warriors fight to the end.

：To be in my 16th year and back in the AFC Championship game, I don・t just credit myself. I credit my mom, and I credit God. I can・t stop working until whenever is whenever, and I don・t know when that is going to be.；

It won・t be long, now. Maybe sooner than any of us think.

Lewis won・t be challenged by his kids this afternoon. He is going to be matching wits with one of the best quarterbacks of all time in Tom Brady.

To stop the Patriots・ potent attack, Lewis will have to be at his best. He will also need some help from the rest of the Ravens team.

There is no time to worry about the future. After four years of making it to the AFC semifinals and now a second trip to the conference championship game, the time is now.

Whether Lewis chooses to acknowledge it or not, the NFL hour glass is running out. And this may be his last shot to end his career on a championship note.
