Ravens' Cundiff makes no excuses for botched kick

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ¡V In a quiet Baltimore Ravens locker room, the kicker put on his gray coat and straightened his purple tie and took several swigs from his bottle of water.

Time to face the world.

Billy Cundiff could run and hide. Slip out the back door, hustle to the bus like he was evading a posse and leave the questions behind. Try to avoid the replays that would be on TV all night of his kicker's nightmare, when a 32-yard field goal attempt went so horribly wrong and so futilely left.

    MORE: Patriots hold off Ravens
    VIDEO: Cundiff misses crucial kick
    PHOTOS: Best images from the playoffs

But not the eight-year veteran who played at Drake, earned an MBA from Arizona State and once worked for a venture capital firm when he took two years away from football. And Cundiff was 12-for-13 in postseason field goal attempts in his life ¡X before this one.

"It's something that will be tough for a little while," Cundiff said. "But I've got two kids; there are some lessons that I need to teach them. First and foremost is to stand up and face the music and move on."
USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!

To get the latest sports news from USA TODAY, including game results, columns and features, follow us on Twitter at @USATODAYSports.

The New England Patriots will be in the Super Bowl because they were good when they had to be and fortunate when they needed to be. When all else failed, there was dumb luck.

And the Ravens? They are left with a 23-20 loss that could erode their stomach linings.

Fifteen seconds left, a 32-yard field goal to tie and force overtime, and New England one big mass of held breaths, from Tom Brady to the upper deck ushers.

"It's a kick," Cundiff said, "I've kicked a thousand times in my career.

"There's really no excuse for it."

No, there wasn't. Snap was fine. Hold was fine. No wind. It looked like he might have been rushed, but he made no mention of it later. But instead of being straight and true, it went off his foot like a shanked wedge shot.

"Just wishing it left," New England guard Logan Mankins said of his thoughts at the moment, "and keep going left."

It can be a cruel game, for those who miss wide left.

So the Patriots partied like it was 2008, when they made their last trip to the Super Bowl. The Ravens showed us how professionals handle crushing defeat.

There was Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis, watching another Super Bowl chance slip away. Lewis, who said he was "absolutely not retiring," doesn't have many left. No one would have more cause to curse fate ¡X and his kicker ¡X than he.

But no, he had supportive things to say to Cundiff, "which I will do quickly."

"There is no one man who has ever lost a game," Lewis said. "Don't you ever drop your head; we win as a team, we lose as a team. There is no 'Billy is the fault, Billy missed the kick.' It happens. Move on like a man, because life doesn't stop."

And coach John Harbaugh pulling Cundiff aside afterward with a message. "You'll be fine," he said. "You have broad shoulders."

And Cundiff ¡X his last field goal try was none too impressive, but the way he faced his role as new goat certainly was. He never said much to his teammates ¡X "I don't think they want to hear an apology," he said ¡X but understood this is how the game works for a kicker. One minute, warming up on the sidelines. The next, infamous.

"The timing seemed a little bit off and I just didn't convert. It's just that simple," he said. "When you're at this level and if you're going to be a professional, you have to take it personally. I get paid to make field goals.

"That's the reason we play this game. You want to lay it all out there ¡X you just don't get this kind of adrenaline rush sitting behind a desk ¡X with this kind of pressure.

"You know that Ray poured his heart out ¡K to let him down is pretty tough."

Kickers are like bullpen closers: They need to have short memories and occasionally total amnesia.

Cundiff will need that more than ever. But like wise old Ray Lewis said, life doesn't stop.