Joe Flacco, Ravens find some consolation in loss

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ¡V Because Joe Flacco began his workweek under the microscope, the Baltimore Ravens quarterback was prepared for the roller coaster ending of Sunday's AFC Championship Game that's sure to continue the scrutiny.

The 23-20 loss to the New England Patriots revealed joy and ultimately pain for the fourth-year veteran, who shook off a late fourth-down incompletion to lead the Ravens down to the Patriots 14-yard line on their final drive and appeared to have thrown the game-winning touchdown pass into Lee Evans' hands before it was knocked away in the end zone. Baltimore's hopes of forcing overtime died three plays later when kicker Billy Cundiff missed a 32-yard field goal attempt.

Critics will note another playoff loss for Flacco, but his supporters can take heart in a day in which he topped Patriots counterpart Tom Brady 306-239 in yardage and 2-0 in touchdowns. That doesn't change the outcome or his disappointment, but doing things to put Baltimore on the brink was some consolation.

    MORE: Patriots hold off Ravens
    VIDEO: Patriots - Ravens highlights
    PHOTOS: Best images from the NFL playoffs

"We put ourselves in position to win it. We just weren't able to pull through," said Flacco, who completed 22 of 36 attempts, same as Brady. "Somebody has to lose. The thing for us is we laid it all out there. We didn't leave anything on the field. We can look each other in the eye and say we left it all out there and gave it our best.
USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!

To get the latest sports news from USA TODAY, including game results, columns and features, follow us on Twitter at @USATODAYSports.

"Did we play every play our best and execute everything the best? No. But in this type of game, in their place, we'd like to think we would've made it and sitting out there celebrating. But it didn't happen. We left it all out there. We're proud of that, and we move on."

Moving on was Flacco's mantra since midweek, which began with veteran safety Ed Reed saying the quarterback looked "rattled" in last weekend's lackluster divisional victory against the Houston Texans. Though Flacco and his teammates downplayed the remark, there were questions about a possible aftermath.

New England certainly did its part to shake up Flacco. The Patriots registered two of their three sacks of him in the first quarter as he stood in the pocket with nowhere to throw.

Flacco's fourth quarter saw Patriots linebacker Brandon Spikes make a one-handed interception of his pass intended for tight end Ed Dickson, while defensive tackle Vince Wilfork harassed him into throwing wildly out of bounds with 2:46 remaining at the New England 33. But success usually followed those setbacks.

"Joe played tremendous, especially at the end when we were moving the ball in the two-minute (drill), and he marched us right down the field," tight end Dennis Pitta said. "People can say what they want about Joe Flacco. But we have a ton of confidence in him, and we know the caliber of quarterback that he is."