Eli Manning at Giants practice

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- Eli Manning returned to a full practice and declared himself 100 percent on Thursday.

The New York Giants quarterback was feeling much better 24 hours after a stomach bug kept him from finishing practice on Wednesday.

"Yeah, I am 100 percent," Manning said. "Had a full practice, did everything, took every rep. Feel good."

Offensive coordinator Kevin Gilbride told Manning he looked like he could use a little color.

"He took great offense when I said he still looked pale to me," Gilbride said. "He said, 'It's the winter, Coach, of course I look pale.' But he did look a little pale. We did everything with him. We maybe slowed down a couple of the drills in between our work sessions."

Even though backup David Carr took around 75 percent of the first-team reps on Wednesday in practice, Manning remained at the team's facility late that day and attended meetings as he continued to prepare for Sunday's NFC Championship Game against the 49ers.

Manning and his coaches say the illness did not affect his preparation.

"When he got back to work today, had a nice breakfast, seemed to do fine," coach Tom Coughlin said. "I'm sure he is not quite himself but almost."

"[But as far as] his preparation, he had done all the work prior to," Coughlin added. "He had already done all his classroom work. What he missed was the after-practice work and then he was able to come in this morning and do some of that."

Manning said he wasn't feeling well when he woke up on Wednesday morning. He tried to tough it out in meetings but it got worse by practice in the late morning.

"Once we were out there at practice, it wasn't going well," Manning said. "So try to be smart and say hopefully this will be a little 24-hour bug. Came back in and got some fluids and tried to make sure [I] didn't make it worse. Fortunate it happened on a Wednesday and not later in the week."

It will take a lot more than a little stomach ailment to keep Manning from playing or even preparing for the NFC title game.

Manning is enjoying the finest season of his eight-year career, throwing for a career-high 4,933 yards, 29 touchdowns and 16 interceptions. He has led six game-winning drives this season when the Giants were either trailing or tied in the fourth quarter.

He also has passed for three touchdowns in each of the Giants' playoff wins over the Falcons and Packers.

Manning said the stomach illness didn't slow him down mentally this week. And physically, his arm is doing just fine.

"At least I got to be here and get into all the meetings and get through the walk-through and didn't take any live reps," Manning said. "[I] know the game plan, know what's going on. The arm felt good, felt fresh and it was coming out good [on Thursday]."

And if it rains on Sunday, Manning said he will be fine throwing in the rain. The forecast calls for a 40 percent chance of showers on Sunday, according to weather.com.

"I think I am fine throwing in the rain," Manning said. "It is not something I worry about. I've had success throwing in rain games. If it is going to be a wet game, I've always felt the offense has an advantage from throwing the ball. Receivers have an advantage when the ground is wet. They know where they are going, they know what they are doing, they should come out of their breaks a little bit better. We should not be the ones slipping. It's usually the defensive side that slips."