New York Giants playoff report: Eli Manning back at practice after bout with stomach bug

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.¡XEli Manning never misses a game and almost never misses a practice. So it was not alarming, but was noticeable, when he did not finish practice on Wednesday because of a stomach bug.

David Carr, the backup quarterback, took about 75 percent of the practice snaps and everyone around the Giants hoped whatever was ailing Manning would run its course in 24 hours. That turned out to be the case, as Manning was back on the field on Thursday, not missing a thing.

Part of Manning¡¦s value is his durability, as he¡¦s never missed a game in his career and has a knack of sidestepping hits and sacks before they can inflict maximum harm. After the finest season of his career, Manning has been even better in the playoffs, completing 67.7 percent of his passes for 607 yards, six touchdowns and one interception in victories over the Falcons and Packers.

Manning¡¦s quarterback rating in the postseason of 121.8 is an indication of his efficiency, and he¡¦s had no trouble coming up with big plays downfield, especially locating Hakeem Nicks, who has four touchdown receptions. Manning has been able to keep the offense out of bad plays with his keen sense at the line of scrimmage.

Although he does not quite mimic the gesture-filled pre-snap gyrations of his older brother Peyton, Eli does not mind exhausting almost all of the play clock as he scans the field, changes the protection and motions his teammates into the correct formations. Manning is not afraid to throw the ball into tight spots but he has shed the 2010 bad habit of forcing the issue when he¡¦s under pressure.

Notes: Since his return, DE Osi Umenyiora has changed the entire look and feel of the Giants defense. Umenyiora missed four straight games with a high ankle sprain and since his return, he¡¦s had five sacks in three games, including three in the two playoff victories. Umenyiora missed seven games this season, sitting out the first three games recovering from knee surgery and then four straight with the ankle injury. While he was out, Jason Pierre-Paul emerged as a star, starting at right defensive end and amassing 161/2 sacks to earn his first Pro Bowl selection in just his second NFL season. There was no way the Giants were going to move Pierre-Paul aside when Umenyiora returned. Instead, Umenyiora comes off the bench, playing 25-30 snaps almost exclusively in pass-rush situations. He¡¦s been fresh and active and has shown his trademark speed coming off the ball around the edge. Against the Packers, he had one of his vintage strip-sacks, as he always goes for the football when he¡¦s in the vicinity of the quarterback. With Umenyiora, Pierre-Paul and Justin Tuck, the Giants have three defensive ends they can use at one time, as Tuck or Pierre-Paul can move inside to tackle and both can move inside if the Giants decide to put LB Mathias Kiwanuka, a converted DE, up at the line as well. Prior to the season Umenyiora requested a trade because he was not happy with his contract situation. He has one year left on his deal and does not want to play it out with the Giants coming off the bench playing behind Jason Pierre-Paul. Umenyiora has hinted more than once that he¡¦s figuring this is his last year with the Giants and wants to go out earning another Super Bowl ring.