There's no quit in Eli Manning

SAN FRANCISCO - If you¡¦re Eli Manning, you have to believe the best is yet to come.

The unflappable quarterback for the New York Giants has survived the gauntlet of the NFC playoffs and finds himself as the last man standing.

In outlasting the fury of the San Francisco 49ers in Sunday¡¦s thrilling 20-17 overtime triumph, Manning must know deep in his heart that he survived his last great pounding of the season.

The 49ers defence was one of the best in the league, if not the best, and there is no comparison between it and the one Manning will face in the Super Bowl in two weeks time.

The 49ers came after him with all they had, sacking him six times and levelling 12 quarterback hits in all.

There is absolutely nothing to suggest that the New England Patriots defence will have the ferocity that the 49ers showed and will lay as many paws on him when they clash in Indianapolis in the house that older brother Peyton built.

Manning wasn¡¦t the hero of the day for the Giants, but he was heroic in how he weathered the 49ers storm.

He completed the passes when needed, found a couple of receivers in the end zone and more importantly, kept the ball out of the hands of the ball-hawking 49ers defenders. On a couple of occasions luck was on his side as interceptions turned into incomplete passes thanks to the San Fran defensive backs colliding into each other going for the ball.

But the bottom line was the number zero, as in zero turnovers and on a day as foul as Sunday¡¦s that proved to be as decisive as the two miscues by 49ers punt returner Kyle Williams.

In the glow and relief of victory, Giants coach Tom Coughlin was effusive in his praise for Eli.

¡§They have a tremendous pass rush,¡¨ Coughlin said. ¡§We didn¡¦t have a lot of run. There wasn¡¦t much variety in what we were doing. Our screens didn¡¦t seem to work.

¡§But Eli just hung in there, hung in there and made plays when we needed for him to make them and displayed the kind of leadership that he¡¦s shown all year long.¡¨

Through the air, Manning completed 32 of 58 passes for 316 yards including the two touchdowns and showed poise and presence throughout the game.

¡§His focus on what¡¦s necessary for us to win, the position that he plays, the fact that he has to make plays and not make a mistake and get back up the number of times that he was hit ¡X it tells you the kind of courage, the kind of player, the kind of leader that he is,¡¨ Coughlin said.

¡§His performance tonight certainly proved that.¡¨

For his reward, his courage, he is going to the Super Bowl and has the chance to add another ring, something few other quarterbacks possess.

¡§Eli has shown toughness all year,¡¨ Giants tackle David Diehl said. ¡§He¡¦s a true leader of our offence. We rally around him. The season that he¡¦s had is unbelievable. He is playing his ¡¥A¡¦ game.¡¨

Among the well-wishers that greeted Eli after the game was his older brother Peyton, who despite his greatness has just one Super Bowl triumph on his resume.

¡§It¡¦s what I expected him to do,¡¨ Peyton said. ¡§I¡¦m just proud of Eli and how well he¡¦s played this year. He¡¦s been awesome. He¡¦s been clutch.¡¨

This season Eli Manning seems to have been at his best each and every time out.

In the fourth quarter he has been the best quarterback in the game, leading his team to comebacks on six occasions.

He set the NFL record with 15 touchdown passes in the fourth quarter during the regular season ¡X breaking the record of 14 set by Peyton and Johnny Unitas.

He beat Brady and the Patriots four years ago in the Super Bowl by throwing a touchdown pass to Plaxico Burress with seconds left on the clock. He beat them again this season.

Looking ahead to Indianapolis, Eli kept it low key as is his manner.

¡§Obviously, we know they are a great team,¡¨ he said of the Patriots. ¡§They¡¦ve been a great team for years. They¡¦ve had an unbelievable season. They had terrific players all over. We played them once this year and it came right down to the wire (a 24-20 Giants victory Nov. 6).

¡§They are playing great football of late also. Hopefully, we can continue to play our best football.¡¨

Playing at your best, playing with courage ¡X it¡¦s the only way Eli knows how to play. 