Giants Niners¡KQuestions from a Niners Blogger

Eric Melendez of Ninersnoise.com had a few questions about the New York Giants and their match-up with the San Francisco 49ers in the NFC Championship game this weekend.

1. What is the biggest reason why the Giants have won four games in a row after starting the season 7-7?

The Giants were injury plagued all year. When they finally were able to get Ahmad Bradhsaw and Michael Boley in particular back on the field, it made a difference in communication and the passion with which the team played.

2. With rain expected before and during the game, will the weather affect the Giants passing game?

We have rain in New Jersey too. WIth all the technology with gloves and the officials keeping the ball dry between plays, it¡¦s different than the old days. I don¡¦t think the gameplan changes drastically unless it¡¦s foggy or a deluge during the game.

3. Who should Niners fans look out for on offense and defense who could have a big game for the Giants?

The Giants have turned into a Big Play offense this year. Victor Cruz, Hakeem Nicks and Mario Manningham create match-up problems for every team they have faced, when they have all been healthy. The Falcons in particular stated they would take away Victor Cruz, well Hakeem had 2 TD¡¦s and 165 yards that day. On defense, #90 J.P.P. is the one to watch for big plays. He has averaged 16 tackles a game down the stretch and against Dallas had 15 tackles, a forced fumble, 2 sacks, 2 passes batted, and a blocked FG.

4. Niner fans know what it¡¦s like to get no respect for your QB even after they play well. Do Giants fans finally think Eli Manning has been given the respect he deserves and is an elite quarterback in the NFL?

Eli has finally this year gotten the respect he deserves. He is a top 5 guy, He doesn¡¦t throw the perfect spiral every time, but is one of the best deep throwers in the league. Having never missed a snap in his career shows just how tough he is, and being the highest rated 4th quarter QB with 15 TD passes says a lot.

What is your prediction for the game? Do you think it will be a low scoring defensive game, or will we see the Giants and 49ers scoring a lot of points?

I think both these defenses will play well¡KI see a low scoring affair