Are the 49ers just too good to be true?

Do you really want to see San Francisco・s fairy tale continue? Jim Harbaugh has worked something close to a miracle in one year, turning a bumbling defence into merciless troop of ball stealers, making forgettable Alex Smith a winner, and inspiring Vernon Davis to become a playoff hero.

Some things, it seems, are just meant to be. And maybe that is why the 49ers seem too good to be true. What is the catch? When will it all unravel? Perhaps it is fitting their biggest test is against the New York Giants, the team that always seems to disrupt the expected storyline. Because maybe what we want is for Tom Brady to have those final two minutes of Super Bowl XLII back in a salivating rematch with Eli Manning. Some things, maybe, are meant to be.

Or maybe, finally, it is Joe Flacco・s time to realize that players have the pen inside 60 minutes, and only he can write his own destiny.

AFC Championship Game
Baltimore at New England
Gillette Stadium
Sunday, 3 p.m. ET, CTV

Rob Gronkowski vs. Ed Reed
There is not a more effective offensive weapon in the NFL today than Rob Gronkowski. He has hands the size of lunchboxes that seize the ball from the air and no tight-end in NFL history can compare with his 1,327 receiving yards (at an average of 14.7 per catch) and 17 touchdowns this season. And he smote the Broncos defence in the divisional round with 10 catches for 145 yards and three touchdowns. It could be Ed Reed・s toughest challenge. Physically, Gronkowski has seven inches and 60 pounds over Baltimore・s free safety, but this will be a cerebral battle. For a man so large, Gronkowski can always find a sliver to expose over the middle, but Reed is the master of enticing receivers into open spaces before creeping behind or underneath them to nab the ball.

Wes Welker vs. Lardarius Webb
Even if Gronkowski is occupied, that still leaves ever-ready receiver Wes Welker available for the big play. In 2011, Welker cashed-in a career high 1,569 receiving yards and nine touchdowns. Welker does not have the same physical attributes of Gronkowski or tight end Aaron Hernandez, but he draws straight chalk lines on his routes and then can quickly improvise. Ravens cornerback Lardarius Webb will likely have the task of being the jacket. Webb, who led the Ravens with five interceptions this season, probably learned much this week from watching film of Darrell Revis・ work from last year・s AFC divisional round game, when Welker was held to an ineffectual 57 receiving yards, and New England lost.

Joe Flacco vs. himself
By Sunday night, the NFL will know if Joe Flacco has the ingredients of an elite quarterback. He will need to put aside criticism from his own teammates and his own disappointment at the critical analysis of his abilities to straighten his shoulders in the biggest game of his career. Last week, the charity of Houston・s four turnovers lessened the pressure on Flacco, who threw two touchdowns but was unconvincing. The Patriots defence was fluid last weekend and eliminated Denver・s offence by cleverly predicating run and pass plays, to the point it appeared Bill Belichick was inside Tim Tebow・s helmet. It is the those decisions at the line of scrimmage, how he deals with the play that unfolds in front of him, that will accurately measure Flacco・s big-game potential.

Ray Rice vs. Patriots defence
Baltimore・s defence will be influential, as they tend to be in all big games. But for the Ravens to return to the Super Bowl for the first time in more than a decade, they will need Ray Rice to chew up every inch of Gillette Stadium; to run and catch the ball, and make the Patriots hurt for trying to stop him, much like he did in the 2009 playoffs. Rice was a war machine from the line of scrimmage in the regular season, with 1,364 rushing yards and 704 receiving yards. And the Ravens must not relent, even if Rice first keeps tumbling into Vincent Wilfork・s belly. Over 60 minutes, Rice strips away the strength of a defence, until he is high-stepping over the bodies of defeated men.

Alex Smith vs. Eli Manning
Not even the boldest gambler would have ever predicted Alex Smith would be a starter in the NFC championship. But seven unexciting seasons dissolved in the potency of last week・s performance: 299 passing yard, three touchdown and one rushing touchdown against New Orleans. Smith made every correct decision in San Francisco・s 14-0 first quarter. And even when it appeared the Saints・ pass rush had forced him to his limits, the 2005 No. 1 draft pick knew where to find tight end Vernon Davis and when to tuck the ball and run. In a way, Smith・s maturation last Saturday was not dissimilar to Manning・s own ascent in the 2008 playoffs: the reckless gunslinger turned into a big-game performer. In his own performance last week, Manning was offered scads of time by his line to slice the Packers apart. The losing pivot will likely be the one who falls into old bad habits.

Giants pass rush vs. 49ers pass rush
If the NFC Championship becomes an offensive arm-wrestle, like the divisional games, it may well be the muscle in the opposing pass rushes that seals the victory. New York・s Osi Umenyiora (three sacks in the playoffs), Michael Boley (two) and Jason Pierre-Paul disrupted Matt Ryan and Aaron Rodgers by getting underneath their chin-straps. San Francisco・s Ahmad Brooks, Aldon Smith and Justin Smith can hurt just as much and could provoke old foolishness out of the pragmatic Eli Manning. Aldon Smith and Pierre-Paul, particularly, will be the most threatening instruments. In his rookie season, Smith was tied for fifth with 14 sacks, while Pierre-Paul was a spot above him in fourth with 16.5.

The 49ers running game vs. the Giants running game
Limiting the influnce of the pass rushes will come down to running the ball effectively. The Giants tandem of Ahmad Bradshaw and Brandon Jacobs has risen in the last few weeks. Bradshaw and Jacobs averaged 3.9 and 3.8 yards per carry, respectively, in the regular season, but in their two playoff games, Jacobs is up to 5.0 and Bradshaw to 4.8. The reason? Fantastic excavation from New York・s offensive line, and pathetic tackling. The Falcons and Packers timidly draped their arms around the angry thoroughbreds. The 49ers・ Frank Gore and Kendall Hunter are an equally mighty tandem who found their reservoir of power last week after the 49ers stopped relying on Saints・ turnovers for easy points. Gore averaged 6.8 yards a carry, while Hunter picked up 4.2. The important points could be found on the ground if the defences swallow both quarterbacks.

Hakeen Hicks vs. Vernon Davis
Both throws were ill-advised: Manning・s Hail Mary at the end of the first half against the Packers, and Smith・s dart through traffic to the end zone with seconds ticking away against the Saints. But they had confidence in their targets, Giants wide recevier Hakeem Nicks and Davis, the 49ers tight end. The two were scene-stealers last week, combining for 14 catches for 345 yards and four touchdowns top set up this matchup. It is not only that they both can create textbook separation off the line of scrimmage, but that they have been willing to stand in coverage, take a hit, and take the ball into the end zone. Just ask Green Bay・s Charlie Peprah and New Orleans・s Roman Harper.

