Niners play the 'hard-school' way 

SAN FRANCISCO - Defence is back in vogue, at least it will be through Sunday¡¦s NFC Championship game between the San Francisco 49ers and the invading New York Giants.

Defence is the face of this 49ers team and for that it makes no apologies. Their¡¦s is a brutal and smash-mouth type of defence that seems slightly out of step in today¡¦s high octane, pedal-to-the metal offensive driven game that zooms along this season at warp speed.

The NFL in 2011 featured aerial assaults unlike any season in the past but with just four teams remaining, Tom Brady and his Patriots are the lone offensive warriors left.

Even the Giants and the skill set that quarterback Eli Manning and his trio of terrific wide receivers supplies, is backed up by a defence that in its past four games has come together and has led the roar.

The 49ers rang up a 13-3 regular-season record mostly off the map. They rarely played in prime time and hardly at all as the featured game of the day.

They won because they brought in a terrific young head coach in Jim Harbaugh and through him the players gained the confidence that let their talent run free, no moreso than on the defensive side of the ball.

¡§We try and play defence the old-fashioned, hard-school way,¡¨ 49ers defensive coordinator Vic Fangio said this week. ¡§I don¡¦t think we can be one dimensional to win the whole thing. You have to be really good on one side of the ball and at least as good on the other side.¡¨

Right now they are really good on the defensive side of the ball and it¡¦s the offence that has to play catch up.

The biggest play of the day in their victory over the Saints last week was quarterback Alex Smith¡¦s pinpoint game-winning TD pass to tight end Vernon Davis with nine second left on the clock.

But the tone-setter for the game was supplied by the San Fran defence when safety Donte Whitner delivered a Hall of Fame hit on running back Pierre Thomas on the two-yard line. The force of the hit dropped Thomas to the turf but not before separating him from the ball. The 49ers would recover the fumble and Thomas would not make it back into the game.

That¡¦s 49ers defence.

The amazing thing about the play is that it wasn¡¦t unique. The 49ers had done it before. In fact, Thomas became the seventh running back that the 49ers had knocked out of games this season.

They are a hit first and hit hard group that has aided the offence by separating the opposition from the ball. In the regular season they made 23 interceptions and tied with Green Bay in takeaways with 38.

They are vicious in their hitting and for that they are totally unapologetic.

¡§The only way I can explain that is that we play physical,¡¨ Whitner said at practice Friday about their knockouts of running backs. ¡§Whenever you play physical, people get hurt. We don¡¦t want to go out and intentionally hurt anybody, but when you play this game the way we play it and you play it fast and carefree, some guys are going to end up getting injured.

¡§We¡¦re not going to stop playing physical. We¡¦re going to continue to do it and if guys get out of the game, hopefully it¡¦s not too bad of an injury.¡¨

There certainly won¡¦t be any regrets.

The key to the 49ers¡¦ defensive success has been their ability to stop the run. On the season they ranked first in the league in that department holding the opposition to an average of 77.3 yards per game which was an astounding 15 yards better than the No. 2 team, the Baltimore Ravens. They also allowed just three rushing touchdowns including none from the Saints in last week¡¦s 36-32 triumph.

So that will be their goal on Sunday, to attempt to stop Ahmad Bradshaw and Brandon Jacobs in their tracks and force Eli Manning to carry the offence on his right arm.

If that happens, the 49ers secondary will be waiting, licking its chops.

¡§Making a team one dimensional, once you know they can¡¦t run the football, that¡¦s when you can get some exotic blitzes or play a lot of coverage, a lot of two high safeties, a lot of cover five, cover two, because you know that you don¡¦t have to worry about putting a guy in the box to stop the run,¡¨ Whitner said. ¡§We¡¦ve been able to do that all year long ¡X stop the run with seven guys in the box. It¡¦s really one of the keys to our success.¡¨

So too has been their ability to cause fumbles and interceptions. They are a team that takes high risks for high rewards in their desire to go for the ball.

¡§I think that you have to be that way if you want to be a successful secondary in the National Football League,¡¨ Whitner said. ¡§If you don¡¦t get turnovers, you don¡¦t get the football back to your offence, which means you really are losing possessions. If you¡¦re going up against good offences, you need to get that football back.

¡§Last week we gave up some yards, we gave up some long plays, but all of those turnovers we got were really significant in coming out with a win. We understand that sometimes we have to temper it down a little bit and not go for the interception and really get the solid tackle, get the guy on the ground. But you have four or five guys back there that are thinking football at all times, whether it be a forced fumble, interception, fumble recovery. We need to get the football back and that¡¦s what we¡¦ve been doing and that¡¦s why we lead the league in turnovers.¡¨

It is not the 49ers football of the Joe Montana or Steve Young days.

This is a 49ers team where the defence stirs the drink, drives the car.

It¡¦s a unit capable of driving them all the way to Indianapolis.

FLU BUG RATTLES GIANTS

Out on the west coast most of the talk is about the weather.

On the east coast it¡¦s about the bug, flu bug that is.

Back on Wednesday, Giants quarterback Eli Manning had to miss practice with a stomach bug and nobody but Manning knows exactly how he feels now, if he has regained all of his strength.

The fear among Giants fans is whether the flu bug or whatever it is, is spreading through the team.

On Friday, another Giants casualty surfaced when starting centre David Baas was sidelined with the same ailment.

Insert joke about how Manning passed the bug to Baas here.

The Giants, though, aren¡¦t laughing. They are taking it all very serious as a flu bug sweeping through their locker room at this juncture of the week could be catastrophic for the team.

¡§Everybody¡¦s wearing masks, everybody¡¦s washing their hands, doing all they can,¡¨ said Giants head coach Tom Couglin of the team attempting to get in front of the problem. ¡§It¡¦s like when your sister came home with whatever (illness) and you got it.¡¨

When you are going to face a team as physical as San Francisco, the Giants will need to be as healthy as a horse. If they arrive for Sunday¡¦s game in any kind of weakened state it will cripple their chances of success.