San Francisco cops will pose as Giants fans at NFC Championship

Read more: http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/318281#ixzz1yUVoV0u7


When the New York Giants meet the San Francisco 49ers at Candlestick Park, some undercover police officers will be in the stands wearing Giants paraphernalia.
Later today, the Giants will play the 49ers to determine which team will meet the winner of the AFC Championship Game between the Baltimore Ravens and the New England Patriots and go on to the Super Bowl. There will be increased security at Candlestick Park after concerns were raised over the way fans of the New Orleans Saints were threatened and harassed when their team played San Francisco in the Divisional Championship last week.
NFL security director, Jeff Miller, was quoted as saying,

    We'll be looking early on to identify people trying to do those things in the parking areas and take action to remove them. We're not going to be warning people inside the stadium. They will be removed.

According to NBC Sports, there will be 25% more police officers present at the game than there were last week when the 49ers defeated the Saints 39-34. The fact that this week's game is a late start raises the concern that fans will have more time to drink before kickoff.
In addition to more officers and the sting operation where undercover police will be decked out in Giants jerseys, other security measures will be in place. More security cameras have been installed at Candlestick Park and people who appear to be supporters of the visiting team will be given cards when they enter the stadium. The cards contain information on what to do if they encounter difficulties and will have contact numbers for police.
Season ticket holders will be reminded of the NFL Fan Code of Conduct. The code says fans are not to use abusive language, make obscene gestures, or verbally or physically assault fans of the visiting team.
After last week's game there were several complaints made by Saints fans who were at the game. Don Moses, a resident of San Francisco but originally from New Orleans, was in the stands with his teenage daughters, wearing Saints colours. Moses wrote a letter to the San Francisco Chronicle saying,

    Every other word from dozens of fans around us was an f-bomb shouted at the top of their lungs. There were seven or eight large 30-to-35-year-old guys directly behind us who cursed and threatened us the entire game.

After asking the guys to tone it down in front of his daughters, they yelled, "Do not turn around again. Do not ever turn around again."
Jeff York, president and CEO of the 49ers both apologized for and rationalized the behavour of unruly fans. York said,

    I apologize for any rudeness that may have happened. I think you saw 49ers fans who were very excited about hosting a playoff game for the first time in a long time.

The last time San Francisco hosted the NFC Championship Game was in 1997. The 49ers were defeated 23-10 by the Green Bay Packers.

Read more: http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/318281#ixzz1yUVrOGyG
