Deja Blue! Giants head to Super Bowl

NY GIANTS  20  SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS 17, OT SAN FRANCISCO - Lawrence Tynes came running off the field after another overtime field goal, his index finger high in the misty air and pointing straight to another Super Bowl. It all seemed so deliriously familiar to the erupting Giants on the sideline, who once again await the New England Patriots after a 20-17 overtime victory on Sunday night to advance to Super Bowl XLVI. Even Tom Coughlin admitted resisting comparisons to the Giants¡¦ Super Bowl victory four years ago over the Pats is now futile, and there¡¦s no avoiding comparisons to the Giants¡¦ glorious past. These Giants, once on the brink of a ¡§historical¡¨ collapse, are now on the verge of history. PHOTOS: GIANTS MAKE SUPER BOWL XLVI, SET UP REMATCH WITH PATRIOTS ¡§It is kind of eerie,¡¨ said defensive end Justin Tuck. ¡§We tried to downplay it all along, but I¡¦d be lying to you if I said it didn¡¦t feel like 2007.¡¨ ¡§It¡¦s pretty similar,¡¨ added Giants co-owner John Mara. ¡§Let¡¦s hope it stays that way.¡¨ They¡¦ll have a chance to make sure it does on Feb. 5 in Indianapolis when the Giants (12-7) face the AFC champion Patriots in a rematch of Super Bowl XLII ¡X one of the greatest Super Bowls in history. And just like they did four years ago, they set that up that showdown with an overtime field goal by Tynes on the road. This one was from 31 yards, 7:06 into the extra session, on the slick field at Candlestick Park. It came at the end of what Coughlin called ¡§a classic football game that seemed like no one was going to put themselves in position to win.¡¨ Until somebody did. That somebody was rookie linebacker Jacquian Williams, who reached out and stripped the ball from 49ers punt returner Kyle Williams, who was filling in for the injured Ted Ginn, and immediately put the Giants inside Tynes¡¦ range. Kyle Williams had already muffed a punt in the fourth quarter, setting up the Giants¡¦ go-ahead touchdown. Then he did it again in overtime when Devin Thomas, who also recovered the previous muffed punt, recovered at the 49ers 24. Five plays later, holder Steve Weatherford dug out Zak DeOssie¡¦s low snap and Tynes kicked it through the San Francisco mist. ¡§I blacked out, so I don¡¦t remember anything,¡¨ Weatherford said. ¡§But I do remember that ball going through the pipes.¡¨ That kick was the culmination of a brutal game that was exactly the ¡§bloodbath¡¨ that Chris Canty predicted it would be. It began on a wet field in a driving rain that caused early trouble for both offenses. Eli Manning eventually found his groove, completing 32 of 58 passes for 316 yards and two touchdowns, while getting credit for his sixth fourth-quarter comeback of the year. It was 49ers quarterback Alex Smith who struck first, on a 73-yard touchdown in the first quarter to tight end Vernon Davis who flew right by Giants safety Antrel Rolle. The Giants, riding the hot hand of Victor Cruz (10 catches, 142 yards) answered when a six-yard touchdown pass to tight end Bear Pascoe, and even had a 10-7 halftime lead when Tynes hit a 31-yard field goal at the end of the first half. In the second half, the 49ers seemed to be in control after Smith (12 for 26, 196 yards) again hit Davis (3-112-2), this time for a 28-yard touchdown late in the third. But then Kyle Williams made his first mistake, letting the ball bounce off his knee when he was trying to avoid a punt. Thomas recovered that one, too, giving the Giants the ball at the 49ers 29. That set up Manning¡¦s 17-yard touchdown pass to Mario Manningham with 8:34 left in regulation, which at the time looked like it might turn out to be the game-winning score. But David Akers hit a 25-yard field goal with 5:39 remaining and the game ended up in overtime. From there, both defenses turned up their games. The Giants¡¦ offense even stalled twice in overtime. Manning couldn¡¦t get anything going against the 49ers¡¦ fierce pass rush. ¡§(I was) just trying to be patient, that¡¦s kind of what I kept telling myself,¡¨ he said. ¡§Don¡¦t give them anything. Don¡¦t force anything. Guys never quit. They kept fighting, kept battling, no matter what the circumstances were. I think everyone knew we were going to get a chance to win this football game. Something was going to happen.¡¨ Something did with 9:32 remaining when Jacquian Williams forced the fumble that set up Tynes¡¦ kick, and just like that, 2007 was happening all over again. The Giants, once again the ¡§Road Warriors¡¨ were on their way back to the Super Bowl, against the team they beat in such classic fashion in Glendale, Ariz. in Feb., 2008. ¡§I tried to fight it,¡¨ Coughlin said. ¡§I¡¦m sitting in there and Osi (Umenyiora) is just smiling at me, saying ¡¥Do you realize how this is coming down?¡¦ It¡¦s scary.¡¨ ¡§It¡¦s amazing,¡¨ Tynes added. ¡§I had dreams about this last night.¡¨ For the second time in five seasons, those dreams incredibly came true. Twitter.com/TheBlueScreen