NFC championship: New York Giants at San Francisco 49ers (5:30 | Fox)

The Giants are one of the NFL's best teams at producing big plays. Receivers Hakeem Nicks and Victor Cruz are both explosive, capable of taking even routine routes to the house. Nicks leads all receivers left in the playoffs in yards (280), receptions (13) and touchdowns (four). Eli Manning, who is having his best season and adding to his reputation as a premier clutch quarterback, is the catalyst for this attack.

Another key could be the Giants' running game, which was dormant much of the season but has been productive lately. Ahmad Bradshaw runs with shiftiness and power while Brandon Jacobs brings brute force. After Hall of Fame receiver and ESPN analyst Jerry Rice called Jacobs "a little soft," Jacobs had a classic response: "I bet you he won't tackle me."

The 49ers don't stretch the field much, but quarterback Alex Smith has shown a knack for making pinpoint throws in pressure situations. Running back Frank Gore is the team's main offensive weapon, and rookie Kendall Hunter is effective as Gore's backup. Tight end Vernon Davis, who is exceptional at running after the catch, could be a huge matchup problem for the Giants. Advantage: Giants
MORE FROM SPORTING NEWS

Fun championship facts

Aikman on NFC

Gore's display

Giants' D-line

Defense

The 49ers' front seven might be the best in the NFL. NaVorro Bowman and Patrick Willis are premier inside linebackers. Rookie outside linebacker Aldon Smith brings consistent heat as a pass rusher, and defensive end Justin Smith is relentless. Carlos Rogers is an excellent corner, and safety Donte Whitner punishes receivers.

The 49ers are an excellent tackling team, and their physicality can take over a game. They look to create turnovers when they tackle--a tactic that worked well against the Saints, who had five giveaways last weekend.

Led by ends Jason Pierre-Paul, Justin Tuck and Osi Umenyiora, the Giants have the best pass rush left in the playoffs. Linebacker Michael Boley has raised his game during the postseason with several key sacks while doing a superb job in coverage. The play of the secondary has also improved, but the Giants' pass rush has made life easier. Advantage: 49ers

Special teams

The 49ers are blessed with two of the best legs in football--punter Andy Lee and kicker David Akers. Lee is one of the main reasons the 49ers are consistently in favorable field position. Akers is reliable with excellent range. Once the 49ers get inside an opponent's 35-yard line, they are confident they will come away with points.

f return man Ted Ginn is healthy, he could break one for the 49ers.

Giants kicker Lawrence Tynes has proved he can come through when it counts the most, while punter Steve Weatherford has been solid. Advantage: 49ers 

Jim Harbaugh has done a remarkable job in San Francisco, turning a team that was 6-10 last season into possible NFC champions. Everything has changed for the better. Smith has blossomed. The team is more fundamentally sound and poised. The 49ers have won six games in which they trailed in the fourth quarter. Somehow, some way, the 49ers believe they will win, and that starts with Harbaugh.

"Nothing happens that they don't completely believe," former 49ers quarterback and current ESPN analyst Steve Young said. "Very difficult, extremely difficult for players to truly believe that the head coach is always authentic. The genius of Jim Harbaugh is he does that, he pulls that off."

Giants coach Tom Coughlin has an uncanny knack for getting his best teams to peak once they reach the playoffs. He did it during the Giants' run to a Super Bowl title after the 2007 season. It's happening again, and it's not a coincidence.

"There's some laser ability he has to focus a football team when it's most important," Young said. "You don't see these kind of road warrior teams. That's got to be a compliment to the head coach." Advantage: Giants

Intangibles

The forecast calls for a good chance of rain, and the field at Candlestick Park can get muddy. Whatever the weather, the 49ers will have the advantage playing at home, where they have lost just once all season. The Giants have a ton of momentum, but the 49ers do, too, after their emotional victory against the Saints. Advantage: 49ers

Prediction

The hitting in this game should be ferocious. Both teams are resilient and tough-minded and would rather break you than trick you. It's a rivalry with great playoff history, and this should add another chapter.

"Line up man to man and see who is a tougher guy at the end of the day," Giants linebacker Mathias Kiwanuka said. "These are the kinds of games I live for."

The Giants will celebrate the outcome. Giants 30, 49ers 29

