New York Giants and San Francisco 49ers scrap again

But there was a time when no one was surprised when the New York Giants and San Francisco 49ers met post-season.

"We knew somewhere along the line it was going to be about us and them," former Giants quarterback Phil Simms said, recalling one of the biggest rivalries of the 1980s and early '90s.

Added linebacker Carl Banks: "Once you got into the playoffs, they were the Giants' No.1 rival. They were as hated, and I'm sure vice versa, with us as we were with the Redskins or Eagles."

The Giants' current January journey has taken them through one opponent with whom they have no significant history (Falcons) and one against whom most of their big games date back a half-century or more (Packers).

But most fans over 30 can recall at least some of this rivalry's heyday, and many younger than that remember the series' most recent playoff renewal - the Giants' meltdown in a 39-38 wildcard loss nine years ago.

"It was just a massive failure of execution everywhere," running back Tiki Barber said of the Giants blowing a 24-point third-quarter lead.

This will be the eighth time the Giants and 49ers have met in the post-season, tying Giants-Bears and Cowboys-Rams for the most playoff match-ups. What makes that more impressive is that the first meeting did not come until 1981, and that the 49ers were not in the NFL until 1950.

Perhaps the most eventful of those post-season games was that wildcard game in 2003.

Rich Seubert, the guard at the centre of the game's most notorious play, said: "I haven't forgotten it. I don't think anyone on the team or in the organisation will ever forget it."

The Giants had squandered a 38-14 lead when Seubert reported as an eligible receiver on what was to be a 41-yard field-goal attempt with the Giants trailing 39-38 and six seconds left.

When the snap went awry, holder Matt Allen picked up the ball and flung it toward Seubert, who was pulled down by the 49ers' Chike Okeafor just outside the end zone.

Officials correctly flagged fellow offensive lineman Tam Hopkins for being downfield illegally, but did not throw one on Okeafor for pass interference.

The next day, the NFL apologised for the mistake.

The 49ers last played in the Super Bowl after the '94 season.

The Giants have been there twice since. San Francisco stands between them and another visit. To an earlier generation of players, that is as it should be. Newsday