Election Explainer: Russia's Presidential Vote 

Russia's March 4 presidential election is expected to sweep Vladimir Putin back into the Kremlin for another six-year term after a stint as prime minister to avoid a constitutional limit on consecutive terms. The vote, however, takes place against a backdrop of mounting public protests sparked by alleged mass fraud in December's parliamentary elections.

Who are the candidates?

????¡E Vladimir Putin, the country's prime minister and former president. He is expected to win the election in a landslide despite his declining popularity. He has already said he will name his protege, President Dmitry Medvedev, as prime minister if he returns to the presidency. The announced job switch -- and the suggestion at a party congress in August that he'd hatched the plan at least four years ago -- has angered many Russians, who see it as a show of contempt for democracy.

??¡E Gennady Zyuganov, the head of the Communist Party and Putin's main rival for the presidency. This is the fourth time he has run for president since the Soviet collapse. He has placed second on each occasion.

¡E Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (LDPR). Russia's most scandalous politician for more than 20 years, he is a die-hard nationalist famous for his provocative tirades against the West. Despite his rhetoric, he is widely viewed as loyal to the Kremlin.

¡E Sergei Mironov, the head of A Just Russia party. Formerly a faithful ally of Putin, he founded A Just Russia as a nominal opposition party in 2006. He served as speaker of the Federation Council, Russia's upper house of parliament, for almost a decade until the ruling United Russia party ousted him in 2011. Although Mironov ran against Putin in the 2004 presidential election -- and came in last -- his party is seen as controlled by the Kremlin.

¡E Mikhail Prokhorov, the election's only independent candidate and a new face in Russian politics. At 46, he is the youngest candidate. He is also the wealthiest -- "Forbes" magazine rates him as Russia's third-richest man with an estimated $18 billion in assets. Prokhorov has a reputation for hard partying and made headlines in 2007 when French police detained him on suspicion of hiring prostitutes for guests at the Courchevel ski resort. His program -- which proposes political reform, a professional army, and closer ties with the European Union -- targets mostly liberal, middle-class urban voters. Detractors claim his candidacy is a Kremlin project intended to blunt the opposition and lend legitimacy to the election.