Putin set to reclaim Russian presidency

NEW YORK (MarketWatch) ¡X Vladimir Putin is on course to win Russia¡¦s presidential election, reclaiming the office he gave up four years ago.

Putin, prime minister for the past four years, was forced by the Russian constitution to stand down after two terms as president. But exit polls and early results from Sunday¡¦s election suggest he has comfortably defeated his main rival, Gennady Zyuganov.

Putin was expected to win.

Putin appeared before crowds of supports in Moscow Sunday night to declare victory, reported the BBC.

¡§I promised you we would win, and we won,¡¨ he told a crowd numbering tens of thousands of people, according to the BBC.

Appearing alongside outgoing President Dmitry Medvedev, Putin hit back at critics who¡¦ve claimed the elections were corrupt.

¡§We have won in an open and honest battle,¡¨ he told the crowd.

Medvedev stepped aside to let his political mentor return to the presidency.

Earlier, exit polls were quick to suggest Putin had won outright, taking about 60% of the vote and avoiding the need for a runoff against Zyuganov.

The BBC reported that with close to 40% of districts counted, Putin had roughly 63% of the votes, with second-place Zyuganov taking 17%. Election officials were predicting turnout of about 62%, said the news service.

Putin¡¦s returned had long been expected, with few observers believing that Medvedev was anything but a placeholder in the Kremlin. A change to the law in 2008 extended the president¡¦s term to six years from four.

Despite the seeming smoothness of Putin¡¦s reclamation of the presidency, his new term may not be as unchallenged as his earlier reign.

Unhappiness about parliamentary election results in December saw the biggest street protests in Russia since the fall of the Soviet Union, as tens of thousands of demonstrators braved sub-zero temperatures to express their anger at what they thought were rigged elections.

There has been much talk both inside and outside the country that Sunday¡¦s election was similarly corrupt.

Speaking after the polls closed, Communist candidate Zyuganov said the presidential vote was ¡§unfair and unworthy,¡¨ according to the BBC. Zyuganov warned that Putin ¡§would not be able to rule like he used to.¡¨

Opposition leaders are planning a demonstration in Moscow for Monday evening, said The Wall Street Journal. Thousands of extra police have been brought to the capital in preparation, added the paper.