Putin wins Russian presidential election, exit polls say

Moscow - Russian Prime Prime Minister Vladimir Putin was set to reclaim his former job as president after an 'honest and fair battle,' according to exit polls showing a clear victory in a Sunday vote. 

The Russian politician is likely to receive 58 per cent of the popular vote, with his closest rival, Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, receiving 17 per cent, the polling group VTsIOM said.

'We have won in honest and fair battle,' Putin said, in comments to a rally of more than 70,000 supporters near the walls of Moscow's Kremlin.

'Long live Russia!' he said. A live transmission by RTR state-owned television showed a tear in the former KGB agent's right eye.

Putin served two terms as president from 2000-2008. He received 71 per cent support when re-elected in 2004.

Businessman Mikhail Prokhorov was on track to receive 9 per cent, nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky 8 per cent, and social democrat Sergei Mironov 5 per cent, the poll predicted.

Putin, 59, ran on a platform of political stability, economic development and military rearmament.

A parallel poll conducted by the research group FOM predicted slightly higher results for Putin, Zyuganov, and Prokhorov, and slightly lower support for Zhirinovsky and Mironov.

Official ballot counts, with some 37 per cent of ballots totalled, showed Putin with 63 per cent, Zyuganov with 17 per cent, Prokhorov and Zhirnovsky tied at about 7.5 per cent, and Mironov having obtained 3.5 per cent.

Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev expressed disappointment in the results, saying Putin's apparent victory 'does not reflect the will of the people.'

The numbers were certain to change somewhat as official ballot counts continued. A final count would be completed on Monday morning, Central Election Commission head Vladimir Churov said at a press conference.

The exit polls results, if borne out by actual final ballot counts, would be a powerful political victory for Putin, whom detractors had predicted would be unable to amass sufficient support to win the election without going to a run-off.

A run-off between the top two finishers is only required if no candidate obtains more than 50 per cent support, according to Russian election law.

Such a second round appeared extremely unlikely in the face of the exit polls and initial ballot counts showing Putin with a comfortable lead.

Putin cast his Sunday ballot at a polling site in Moscow's prestigious Academy of Sciences.

'I got up, worked out, and then I came here,' Putin said, in comments reported by Itar-Tass. 'I'm sure people will vote responsibly.'

Putin's wife, Lyudmila, accompanied her husband in a rare public appearance.

Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, Putin's political protege, experienced initial difficulty feeding his ballot into the slot of a mechanical ballot box, as he voted along with his wife, Svetlana, at a Moscow school.

Putin on Friday said he intended, if elected president, to name Medvedev his prime minister.

The Election Commission said the vote, with nearly 110 million registered voters, ran smoothly and without major violations at more than 95,000 polling sites across Russia's nine time zones.

More than 450,000 police and troops were on duty to provide security.

The worst violence came in the southern Dagestan province, some 970 kilometres south of Moscow, where a bomb attack killed three police. The attack took place after polling ended.

Independent election monitoring groups said their observers had seen dozens of incidents of attempted ballot box-stuffing or casting of multiple ballots. Most of the reports were from the cities of Moscow and St Petersburg.

The strong majority of the reports of violations ultimately proved to be groundless, but some appeared borne up by evidence and would be prosecuted, Churov said.

Stanislav Gorbukhin, Putin's campaign manager said the election was 'the cleanest vote in the history of Russia.'

Turnout appeared to have been strong, with 56 per cent of registered voters across the country having cast ballots by 1200 GMT, according to commission data.

Polling began on schedule at 0800 (2200 Saturday GMT) in Russia's easternmost province of Chukotka, near the international dateline and the westernmost outreaches of the US state of Alaska.

A nationwide webcam system providing real-time video images from every polling site functioned well, even in far-flung settlements on the Arctic Sea and in Central Asia, election officials said.

'There is no other system like this in the world,' Churov said.

The website webvybory2012.ru showed the video feeds from the polling sites. Most webcams appeared to work properly, spot checks showed. 