Putin, Medvedev address supporters in Moscow

Russia¡¦s PM and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin said that he won in open and fair battle. He stated this addressing his supporters in Manezhnaya Square.

"I once asked you: are we going to make it and we made it. We won today supported by  the majority, Putin said. I promise to work hard and fair and we will succeed. So I urge all of you to unite for the sake of our nation and Motherland", PM added.

Putin had tears in his eyes when saying this ¡V due to a strong wind or emotions.

Earlier, President Medvedev addressed people saying that he is sure of Putin¡¦s victory and it is essential for a strong, modern and independent Russia.

We did it ! ¡V Putin

¡§Thank you all who said Yes to great Russia, PM Vladimir Putin told his supporters in Manezhnaya Square ¡V I promised you victory and we did it!"

According to preliminary results, Putin wins with 64% of votes.

The 2012 presidential elections have become a political maturity and independence test for Russia, Putin told his supporters in Manezhnaya.

They showed that nobody can impose anything on us, he added.

Int'l monitors praise Russian vote

Sunday¡¦s presidential vote in Russia was fully in line with internationally recognized standards, representatives of a team of international monitors have said during a news briefing in Moscow.

¡§We believe that all countries can and should follow Russia¡¦s example today,¡¨ a Serbian observer said. Her colleague from Italy fully concurred, hailing the elections as ¡§outstanding¡¨ and promising to advise his colleague at the European Parliament to ¡§emulate Russian methods in electing European MPs.¡¨

Russian police did 'good job' on election day

Russian police did a good job enforcing order during Sunday¡¦s presidential elections.

First Deputy Interior Minister Alexander Gorovoi has told reporters that a total of 370,000 police officers and 14,000 Interior Ministry troops, backed by 30,000 volunteers and security guards, had been mobilized to ensure law and order on election day.

We won in open and fair battle-Putin

Russia¡¦s President Dmitry Medvedev and PM Vladimir Putin, who is leading the March 4 presidential election according to preliminary results, attended a rally of their supporters in Moscow¡¦s central Manezhnaya Square. This was stated by Medvedev¡¦s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov.

Putin stated that the elections were a political maturity and independence test for Russia and they showed that nobody can impose anything on the country.

We won today supported by the majority and it was a fair victory, Putin said.

Over 110,000 people came to celebrate Putin¡¦s victory with slogans and white balloons.

Russians do not buy political provocations - Putin

Russian presidential candidate Vladimir Putin says that Sunday¡¦s elections demonstrated the people¡¦s resolve to resist political provocations.

¡§No one can force upon us something we do not want¡K Our people can easily differentiate between  the desire for something new and political provocations, aimed solely at destroying the Russians state and usurp power," Putin told thousands of supporters gathered on Manezhnaya square outside the Kremlin.

In an earlier address to the participants in the rally President Dmitry Medvedev named Vladimir Putin the winner of Sunday¡¦s vote.

According to a preliminary count, Vladimir Putin has garnered about 64 percent of votes.

Russia's elections czar says violations minimal

Russia¡¦s chief elections commissioner says that a mere 10 percent of all alleged cases of violations at Sunday¡¦s presidential vote are likely to hold any water.

¡§The observers point an accusing finger at everything they think is wrong... I¡¦m sure than only one-tenth of these reports will eventually prove right,¡¨ Vladimir Churov told reporters in Moscow.

Chechnya chooses Putin

The voter turnout in Russia¡¦s republic Chechnya reached 99,59%, local election Commission reports after processing 42% of all ballots.

PM Vladimir Putin scored 99,73% in the republic. Next comes Gennady Zyuganov.

Gennady Zyuganov: elections unfair

Gennady Zyuganov, presidential candidate and the head of the Communist Party, stated that he considers the March 4 election unfair and is also unhappy with the campaigning as it lacked dialogue between candidates.

"We¡¦ve been demonstrated web-cameras at the polls for 6 weeks to distract out attention from another unfair and indecent election. As a candidate, I can¡¦t call them fair or decent as fair elections mean fair dialogue between powers that be and the opposition. And our leaders are not prepared for it".

Mikhail Prokhorov thinks about creating his own party

Independent presidential candidate, tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov was happy with the election results. Though it was his political debut, Prokhorov competed with Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergey Mironov on equal footing.

Now he thinks about creating his own party.

"I think that we¡¦ve won no matter what the result is as active, thinking people who care will now be forming a new political force. It¡¦s a mistake to think that the elections were over on March 4 ¡V it was just the beginning. My voters are the future ruling class that will take responsibility for everything happening in Russia".

Mironov emphasizes reforms

Briefing the media already before the preliminary results of Sunday¡¦s presidential vote came in, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia party, who also ran for the Russian presidency, said it was not so much the person who is elected to the country¡¦s top job who matters, as the reforms he is going to implement.

¡§No matter who becomes President, he will have to launch a series of fundamental reforms, above all social ones, and crack down hard on corruption or else this country will be in for hard times. Such a President will not last the six-year term,¡¨ Mironov said.

Webcams work: Putin  

Russia¡¦s PM and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is happy about the positive effect of his initiative to install webcams at polling stations. He said that it was a unique experience both for Russia and the whole world, speaking with observers via a video link.

Putin also thanked all observers for their work and responsible attitude.

All I promised will be done - Putin 

Addressing a huge crowd of supporters in central Moscow in the early hours of Monday Russian PM Vladimir Putin pledged that all provisions of his election program can and will be implemented.

¡§Dear friends, I want to thank you all for the joint work you did during this campaign. Moreover, there is a great deal of work still to be done for the benefit of our people, and this is something that can be done¡¨, Putin said.