Russian presidential elections exit-poll data released

Russia・s presidential election is over. At 9 p.m. Moscow time voting stations in Russia・s westernmost Kaliningrad region closed. According to exit polls, Vladimir Putin leads the election with 58,3%.

Other candidates have scored:

Gennady Zyuganov (the Communist Party) 17,7%

Independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov 9,2%

Vladimir Zhirinovsky (the Liberal-Democratic Party) 8,5%

Sergey Mironov (A Just Russia) 4,8%.

A poll of voters was conducted in 1000 stations in 63 Russian regions. 31,7% of the respondents refused to answer.

The total of 159, 161 voters have been interviewed.

Over 109mln eligible Russians are electing President out of five candidates. 

A total of 96,000 stations are located across Russia. Some of them are equipped with computer ballot count systems.  Voters who want to report violations may call special hot lines which have been arranged to avoid falsifications.

The 2012 campaign differs from the previous ones.  The voting procedure has been amended. Under the relevant presidential decree, all voting stations across the country (over 91,000) are equipped with CCTV (two cameras per each station) to monitor the voting and processing procedures.

This is the first time, Russia・s President is being elected for a term of six years (the previous term was 4 years).

Russia・s elections attract international attention.

They were monitored by about 700 foreign observers from the OSCE (Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe), PACE (Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly), the SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) and other institutions.

They are entitled to the same powers as domestic observers, in contrast to some other countries.  Over 65,000 volunteers, i.e. young lawyers from the For Fair Elections organizations, and the League of Voters, Citizen Observer, Rosvybory, Civil Control associations  are also monitoring the process.

All data about the turnout and preliminary results are received in real time by the Central Election Commission Datacenter in Moscow.

The votes are to be counted no later than March 14 and announced by March 17.