Russian elections online

Today Russians are electing their president, who will for the first time serve a 6-year term. The Central Election Commission (CEC) has already reported a record 47.6% turnout throughout Russia as of 15 p.m Moscow time.

ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT

FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE.

Voting in presidential elections in Russia`s Far East is over, with counting already under way. Local election commissions say the turnout in the Russian east has exceeded 70%. As of 6 p.m local time in Primorye, 57% of voters cast their ballots, which is 5% more than in the 2008 presidential elections. With webcams installed at all polling stations, all registered Internet users can watch the election online. 

Reports show a traditionally high turnout in the Caucasus, with local election commission registering a 100% turnout in many villages of Ingushetiya, Kabardino-Balkariya and Dagestan in the very first hours of the voting. As of midday Moscow time, the turnout in Chechnya was about 53%. In Kabardino-Balkariya it was 34%, 3% more than in 2008. 

In central Russia, many voters appear to be still on their way to the polling stations, with just a 12% turnout reported in Moscow at midday. Now that several hours have passed since the voting started, Saint Petersburg reports a 10% turnout, which is higher than in the parliamentary election in December. 

In all, more than 110 million Russians, including 2 million residing abroad, have the right to vote in today¡¦s elections, the CEC head Vladimir Churov said.

"400 polling stations in more than 140 countries are open for Russian citizens wiling to cast their ballots. In Russia, more than 95,000 polling stations are open today, with 830,000 people hired as members of local election commissions. Half of them were appointed by registered political parties." 

Webcams installed at all polling stations across Russia allow people watch the election process online, which is a real innovation for the country. Russia¡¦sMinister of Communications and Mass Media Igor Shchegolev said there was just a single polling station in a remote village in Magadan district where online broadcast was unavailable. 

Voters are welcome to cast their ballots since 8 a.m until 8 p.m local time. The voting will be over when the last polling station closes in the country¡¦s most western Kaliningrad region at 9 p.m. Moscow time. Only after that early results and exit polls will be unveiled. 

There are five candidates running for the presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal-Democratic Party, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, and independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. They all have already voted.