Russia elects president. The voting process and election results

The presidential elections are getting under way in Russia. A total of 96,000 polling stations will be open from 8am to 8 pm local time. Polling stations have been organized at Russian embassies and consulates abroad, and mobile stations have opened at airports and railroad terminals. Voting will take place even in outer space. For the first time, Russia is electing a president for a six-year term.

ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT

Five candidates are running for Russian presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who represents United Russia Party, Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of the Liberal Democrats Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the founder of A Just Russia Party Sergei Mironov and independent billionaire candidate Mikhail Prokhorov.

Residents of the Russian Far East, the Kamchatka and Chukchi Peninsulas, and the Magadan Region are the first to cast their ballots. Because of the time difference, the voting process in these regions will be in full swing when it¡¦s the middle of the night in Moscow. According to the Central Election Commission, more than 109 million Russian people over 18 are eligible to vote and can exercise this right on March 4th 2012.

About 1.5 million eligible voters who are currently abroad will be able to vote at  Russian embassies and consulates in 146 countries. The largest number of Russians abroad who have the right to vote ¡V nearly half a million - are in Germany. Moldova comes second with nearly 180, 000, and Israel is third with 160,000. The Central Election Commission has held early voting in 58 countries. These countries include Islamic states where Sunday is a working day.

FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE.

From February 17th until March 3rd early voting takes place in 36 remote areas of Russia covering nearly the whole of the Far North and parts of the Far East, Siberia and the Urals. Those who are working at polar stations, lighthouses and vessels at sea cast their ballots well before the voting day as well. Sailors of the Pacific Fleet ships which are patrolling the waters in the Gulf of Aden off Somalia and the Russian peacekeepers who are on duty in South Sudan¡¦s capital Juba have cast their ballots. The results of early voting will not be revealed until the late hours of March 4th when all Russians have taken their votes.

As usual, Russia¡¦s elections are evoking huge interest worldwide. More than 700 foreign observers from the CIS, OSCE, PACE, the Council of Europe, the Shanghai Forum and the Nordic Council, have arrived in Russia to monitor the elections.

Inside Russia, the voting process is being followed by representatives of social groups which sprang up at the request of the public in the wake of parliamentary elections in December which triggered a lot of controversy within Russian society. More than 60,000 volunteers, including young lawyers who founded the observer group For Fair Elections, are overseeing the polls in partnership with other associations, such as the League of Voters, Citizen Observer, Rosvybory and Citizen Control.

Thousands of polling stations have been fitted out with electronic ballot processors in order to minimize the risk of vote rigging. The election authorities have also provided polling stations with about 60,000 transparent ballot boxes. Some 90,000 polling stations have been equipped with web cameras. Anyone willing can follow the voting process on-line at webvybory2012.ru . In addition, the Central Election Commission has launched a free hotline so that people can report irregularities by phone.

All data concerning the voting process, the voter turnout and the preliminary outcome enter the Information Center of the Central Election Commission in Moscow in real time. The first results are expected to be published at 21.00 Moscow time, after the closure of polling stations in Russia¡¦s westernmost Kaliningrad Region. The Central Election Commission is to count the votes by March 14th and release an official report about the outcome of the voting by March 17th.