What does Vladimir Putin's return mean for Russia?

Prime Minister Vladimir Putin says he has won Russia's presidential election, restoring the former KGB officer to the office he held for eight years before term limits forced him to step down in 2008.

Putin won 63% of the votes with more than 99% of the vote counted in an election whose outcome was never in doubt, according to monitors and activists.

"The point of an election is that the outcome should be uncertain. This was not the case in Russia," the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said Monday, while urging Russia to hold fair elections.

Opposition activist and former chess champion Garry Kasparov also accused Putin's supporters of "massive fraud" early Monday by packing the polls with additional voters.

While Putin's victory seems certain, it is less clear what his return to Russia's most powerful office means for the country and its relationship with the world.

What next for Russia's opposition?

Russian opposition leaders predict a massive escalation in their campaign following Putin's announcement of his latest election victory, and Russian security forces broke up a planned anti-Putin protest in central Moscow on Monday evening.

Outspoken opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who once branded Putin's United Russia party as "the party of crooks and thieves," told CNN before the election: "You have to put pressure on government until they give us back the things they've stolen from us."

In pictures: How Putin cultivated strongman image

Organizers of the protest movement are trying to maintain the momentum they have built up since December, when reports of fraud during parliamentary elections sent tens of thousands of Russians into the streets of Moscow to challenge Putin's leadership and demand democratic reforms -- the largest demonstrations in two decades, according to analysts and political observers.

Another opposition leader wants anti-Putin protests to become a fact of daily life in Moscow.

"After his supposed inauguration in May, I think we will have a camp in Moscow, and the protests will become permanent," Ilya Ponomarev told CNN. "Our objective is to bar him from taking the oath."

Can Putin govern the same way he did before?

While Putin warned during the election campaign that Putin 2.0 would look a lot like Putin 1.0, expert Richard Sakwa says there is significant political change on the horizon in Russia.