After Election, Putin Faces Challenges to Legitimacy

MOSCOW ¡X A day after claiming an overwhelming victory in Russia¡¦s presidential election, Vladimir V. Putin on Monday faced a range of challenges to his legitimacy, including charges of fraud from international observers and a defiant opposition that vowed to keep him from serving his full six-year term. 

While Mr. Putin was still celebrating his win, he received a slap in the face from observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. While finding less of the ballot stuffing and other flagrant violations that they said had marred parliamentary elections in December, the observers said Mr. Putin had faced no real competition and unfairly benefited from lavish government spending on his behalf.

Mr. Putin received milder responses from the European Union and from the United States, which called for an ¡§independent, credible¡¨ investigation of fraud allegations but said it was ready to work with him in his new role.

Thousands of antigovernment protesters later gathered in a Moscow square to chant, ¡§Russia without Putin.¡¨ Yet the crowd, which the police estimated at 15,000, lacked the giddy optimism that had pervaded earlier rallies.

When the riot police demanded that the crowd disperse after a couple of hours, many refused to leave. The police then swept up the blogger Aleksei Navalny, the most charismatic figure to emerge in this wave of activism, and dozens of other activists and pushed them into police vans. The police said 250 people had been detained, though many were released early Tuesday morning.

An additional 300 people were detained after a similar event in St. Petersburg.

The arrests drew criticism from the American ambassador, Michael A. McFaul, who said via Twitter that it was ¡§troubling to watch arrests of peaceful demonstrators at Pushkin Square.¡¨ Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the billionaire oligarch who placed third in Sunday¡¦s election, wrote over Facebook that he was ¡§indignant over the use of force against people who came to express their civic position.¡¨

In Washington, the reaction to the election was strikingly muted, even restrained. The White House did not comment, and the State Department put out a written statement congratulating the Russian people and saying the United States ¡§looks forward to working with the president-elect after the results are certified and he is sworn in.¡¨

While it noted concerns about ¡§the conditions under which the campaign was conducted, the partisan use of government resources and procedural irregularities on election day,¡¨ the statement also praised pledges by the authorities to increase transparency in elections and restore elections for regional governors.

The events followed a commanding victory for Mr. Putin, who finished with 64 percent of the vote to win a term that would extend his rule as Russia¡¦s preeminent leader to 18 years. Leaders of the opposition have vowed to challenge Mr. Putin¡¦s claim to the position, largely by uncovering and disseminating evidence of fraud.

¡§This was a procedure and not really an election,¡¨ Mr. Navalny said late Sunday as he watched the election returns come in at a cafe crowded with supporters. ¡§It¡¦s historic in that up until today, Putin had some claim on legitimacy as a political leader, but now that he has run this fake election marked by mass fraud to become emperor, he has none.¡¨

Mr. Navalny said, when someone asked, that he was not concerned about being arrested.

¡§I am just one cog in a very big machine,¡¨ he said. ¡§If we have to, we will stay in the streets forever until they accept our demands.¡¨

Mr. Putin was genuinely shaken in December when his United Russia Party performed dismally in parliamentary elections. Those results, widely dismissed as fraudulent, touched off impassioned protests that drew tens of thousands of young Muscovites, who chanted, ¡§Russia without Putin¡¨ and ¡§Putin is a thief.¡¨

Mr. Putin managed to consolidate his support in recent weeks, though, and in many regions received nearly double the percentage of votes that United Russia had in December. This election ¡X like every presidential race since 1996 ¡X was a foregone conclusion, since Mr. Putin¡¦s rivals were docile, familiar candidates who had already lost to him and his allies repeatedly.

He also undertook a full-throated populist campaign, increasing pensions and military salaries and promising an avalanche of new government spending. He even ventured into Western-style campaigning, appearing before crowds to exhort them to stand with him.

After the returns came in on Sunday, Mr. Putin was clearly emotionally overwhelmed, and a tear trailed down the side of his face as he addressed supporters. His spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, later said it had been caused by the wind. 