Putin holds optimistic dialogue with his opponents

Vladimir Putin has thanked his opponents in Russia・s presidential election of 2012 for launching a tough but clean election campaign and said there is a need to investigate all accusations of violations during the voting.

The Russian Prime Minister, who according to the preliminary results of the Central Electoral Commission, won the presidential elections met with the other candidates. Only Gennady Zyuganov, who won the second place, refused to meet the future Russian President. All the others, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and head of A Just Russia Party, Sergei Mironov and billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov came to the meeting.

After the elections, the Russian political parties should find compromises and start doing creative work, Vladimir Putin said.

：I would like to thank you not only for last evening・s congratulations, but also for the fact that this election campaign had no excessive mudslinging as in the past, although it was a very tough one. The campaign was conducted correctly and intelligently by candidates themselves and their staffs. I would like to congratulate on your results. Someone achieved more than expected and some others less than expected. However, the main thing is that the people who backed you. Many people voted for you. We all should respect these people and consequently, I invited you to meet together and discuss how to work in the future,； Vladimir Putin said.

"Of course, disputes are inevitable because we have often different approaches towards the resolution of tasks before the country. But we should reach consensuses and find compromises and find sensible solutions for our people, our citizens," Vladimir Putin emphasized.

We all should make coordinated efforts to solve effectively the problems standing before the country. Vladimir Putin supported an idea put forward by Mikhail Prokhorov who plans to found his own party and did not exclude the possibility of establishing constructive cooperation.

Another candidate for presidency, Vladimir Zhirinovsky who contested for the fifth time, confirmed that his party would work with the new President. ：I hope that some points in my manifesto will be discussed by the government because they are useful for the country,； head of the LDPR said. Sergei Mironov promised to actively cooperate with the Prime Minister and insisted that it was time to work rather than holding meetings.

Mikhail Prokhorov said that it would be very important to investigate each and every violation at the elections, and those who violated the election law be punished. This is very important for us and to move the country further, the only independent candidate at the presidential election, Mikhail Prokhorov said.

Vladimir Putin assured his former opponents that the head of the Electoral Commission would draw attention to the violations and all these would be thoroughly investigated.

The meeting of the candidates for presidency was held on a neutral territory, at a health resort in Zhukovka. Putin・s election staff expressed the regret that leader of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov refused to attend the meeting.