Election monitors criticise Russian result

International monitors have said Russia's presidential election was clearly skewed to favour Vladimir Putin, a verdict that could spur protesters planning to take to the streets to challenge his right to rule.

Mr Putin, who secured almost 64 per cent of votes on Sunday, portrayed his emphatic victory for a third term as president as a strong mandate to deal with the biggest anti-Kremlin protests since he rose to power in 2000.

But vote monitors from the Organisation for Security and Co-Operation in Europe (OSCE) echoed complaints by opposition leaders who said the election was not fair and who plan to protest against the outcome in central Moscow later on Monday.

"The point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain. This was not the case in Russia," said Tonino Picula, one of the vote monitors.

"According to our assessment, these elections were unfair."

The OSCE monitors said Mr Putin was given a clear advantage over his rivals in the media and that state resources were used to help him extend his domination of Russia for six more years.

They called for all allegations of voting irregularities to be thoroughly investigated.

Although the observers' findings have no legal bearing, they undermine Russian election officials' statements that there were no serious violations and confirm the concerns of many voters.

"It's not the people who choose, it's the authorities who choose themselves. It's all just a game put on for the people, an advertisement for Putin," said Agil Alekberov, who works in a Moscow home furnishings store.

Mr Putin's opponents, fearing he will smother political and economic reforms, have refused to recognise the result, which could allow the former KGB spy to rule Russia for as long as Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev, accused of presiding over "the years of stagnation".

He has already served as president or prime minister for 12 consecutive years and only stood down for his ally, Dmitry Medvedev, in 2008 because of constitutional limits.
Olive branch

With Mr Putin and the opposition groups on collision course, the Kremlin issued a statement that could be intended to take the sting out of the protests, which began over alleged fraud in a parliamentary poll on December 4.

Mr Medvedev, who will stay in office until early May, told the prosecutor general to study the legality of 32 criminal cases including the jailing of former oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky.

Khodorkovsky, who headed what was Russia's biggest oil company, Yukos, and was once the country's richest man, was arrested in 2003 and jailed on tax evasion and fraud charges after showing political ambitions and falling out with Mr Putin.

The Kremlin said Mr Medvedev had also told the justice minister to explain why Russia had refused to register a liberal opposition group, PARNAS, which has been barred from elections.

The order followed a meeting last month at which opposition leaders handed Mr Medvedev a list of people they regard as political prisoners and called for political reforms.

Mr Medvedev's initiatives "have only one goal - to at least somehow lower the scale of dismay and protest that continues to surge in society", Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency.

The move could be a stalling tactic intended to appease the organisers of the biggest protests of Mr Putin's rule, or it could be a parting gesture by a man intent of making his mark as the more liberal of the ruling "tandem" with Mr Putin.
'Address shortcomings'

Western powers greeted Mr Putin's presidential election victory warily, with EU chief diplomat Catherine Ashton saying the bloc merely "took note" of the outcome of Sunday's vote.

"The EU takes note of the preliminary results" from Sunday's presidential poll, Ms Ashton's spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic told a news briefing.

"Overall we share their (the observers') assessment... We are encouraging Russia to address these shortcomings."

David Cameron's spokesman said the British prime minister would call Mr Putin later on Monday but without specifying whether he would offer congratulations.

However the spokesman noted that observers had identified problems including "unequal campaign conditions" leading up to the election, adding, "We would like to see these issues addressed over time."

The spokesman said Britain wants a "constructive relationship with Russia" after years of tense ties.

China's president Hu Jintao congratulated Mr Putin on his victory on Monday, according to the foreign ministry in Beijing.

Meanwhile, Syria hailed what it called a "remarkable" victory by Mr Putin in gratitude for Russia's refusal to join the chorus of criticism of Bashar al-Assad's brutal crackdown on the opposition to his regime.