2012 election: why Russians voted the way they did

According to preliminary data from Russia¡¦s Central Election Commission, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has scored 63,75% of the vote at the March 4 presidential election, Gennady Zyuganov ¡V 17,19%. Mikhail Prokhorov ¡V 7.82%, Vladimir Zhirinovsky ¡V 6.23% and Sergey Mironov ¡V 3.85%.

Experts were surprised by such a huge gap between Putin¡¦s and Zyuganov¡¦s results and with the third place of the election first-timer, tycoon Prokhorov.  Russian analysts and experts explained to VoR the reasons for Putin¡¦s victory.

The political old-timers seem to be getting off the track. The fifth presidential race of the Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky was a failure. His usual third place was taken by debutant Prokhorov. The chief communist Zyuganov had his fourth attempt but his rating hasn¡¦t exceeded 17% for a long time. Experts believe that these two parties should focus on restructuring and putting forward new leaders, who would attempt to run again in 6 years. They should also improve their campaigning, believes political analyst Leonid Polyakov:

"Putin had a very original campaign this year. It was not announced at once in contrast to the other candidates, but published in the form of articles once a week. Each article dealt with a specific aspect of his program- the issue of nationality, economic or social policy, the political system, foreign relations. It was a real dialogue with the voters. People could read the articles and ponder over the program. Such a respectful form to address voters had its results even though Putin refused to take part in the debates personally."

Zhirinovsky¡¦s campaign was absolutely the opposite, says expert from the Institute for National Strategic Studies Pavel Svyatenkov. On the whole, it was rather negative:

"His TV-ad with a donkey and his motto: Choose Zhirinovsky or Things will get Worsewere a failure. His campaign was careless and Zhirinovsky seems to be tired of politics."

Prokhorov¡¦s third place was a surprise, except for his victory in London where 57, 52% of Russian residents in the UK voted for him. In Moscow and St.Pete the tycoon also did well, scoring 20 and 15%, says Leonid Polyakov:

"People voted for him as he is new to politics and is a victim of the regime - last year he was deprived of his party. Even though Russians don¡¦t trust oligarchs at all, a new class of angry voters chose Prokhorov as the only candidate who could back their interests and opinions."

Moscow was the only Russian region where Putin got less than 50% of votes (46%). He had  the highest results in the Caucasus: in Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia where over 90% voted for the Prime Minister, namely 99,8% in Chechnya.