Presidential elections over in Russia 

Hello my friends! This is Konstantin Kosachev and my weekly program from Moscow, Russia. And as always we discuss in this studio of the Voice of Russia the most interesting events which took place inside and outside of Russia during the last week, the events which have drawn the greatest attention and different comments. And sometimes in my program we disagree with these comments which have been spelled out for the simple reason that in many cases what we hear, see and feel inside of Russia is much, much more competent and secure in terms of credibility than any other estimations which come from outside of Russia.

Today definitely we have only one topic to discuss and this is the presidential elections which are finally over and the result of which is clear and obvious ¡V we will not need the second round. We have the winner in the first round and this is Mr. Vladimir Putin who is going to be the next President of Russia, at least the Chairman of the Russian Electoral Committee Mr. Churov has already officially announced and confirmed this result though the counting is not formally finalized. The rest of the votes which are yet uncounted is something like 1 ¡V 2% and it definitely does not make any difference when the winner has much more percents than the other candidates taken together.

So, the result definitely to stay and Russia does have the new President and the inauguration will take place in two months, on the 7th of May this year according to the Russian legislation. The date of the inauguration is not determined by the elected President, it is not determined by the going President, it is determined by the Russian law which says that the date for the inauguration is to be set not earlier than the period of four years for the going President is over, and the period of Mr. Medvedev, his four years in power, will expire exactly on the 7th of May. So, this is the date which is determined by the Russian legislation.

Today I do not have an interlocutor in my studio and this is unfortunately for the simple reason that I invited a very important person Mdm. Tagliavini to discuss the results of the elections to this studio. She is the Head of the International Observation Mission representing the so called ODIR ¡V the bureau for democratic institutions and human rights of the OSCE - the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Unfortunately Mdm. Tagliavini could not come to our studio today and I do not blame her for that because I understand perfectly well how hard it is for the international observers to find some spare time for any interview in one day period after the elections are over.

So, I will have to make my own comments during this program and I have the preliminary report which was published just two hours ago on the half of the international observation team which includes not just ODIR, but also observers from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And this text has been issued and I believe certain changes may take place in the future because this report again in a preliminary one and it may be somehow changed by the politicians in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe later on. But this will take place later and now we have this document to make some comments on it.

And I believe that it may be interesting to analyze it and I personally, as a Russian politician and a citizen of Russia who participated in these elections as a voter, I¡¦m interested to see where I can agree with the criticism or with some positive estimations of our elections and where I can disagree with them. So, I will start doing my analysis of this text.

According to the text ¡§all the candidates of the yesterday¡¦s presidential elections in Russian Federation were able to campaign unhindered, the conditions were clearly secured in favour of one of the contestants.¡¨ That is the first message in this report and I believe it does contain both good and bad news. The good news is that the campaign was run unhindered and the bad news is that according to this report some candidates had certain advantages. And the advantages of which the report speaks about were just for one candidate ¡V the Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. The observers noted that all the candidates had access to the media but the Prime Minister was given a clear advantage over his competitors in terms of media presentations.

 And with this I can agree just partially. On the one hand yes, Mr. Putin was presented, at least on the state owned mass media like our TV channels and radio stations, more frequently than the other candidates. But the reason was quite simple ¡V Mr. Putin during his election campaign continued to act as the Prime Minister of Russia, he did not take any vacation and there were certain exceptions but not during the whole campaign and in general he continued to act as the Prime Minister of Russia which definitely means that some parts of his activities which are not related to the election campaign should be anyhow covered by the mass media.

So, this criticism on my view is unfair as long as we take into account the other part of it  - namely the Russian legislation which prescribes very exactly how much time is to be spend by each candidate in the mass media as a candidate. And in that sense I believe that Mr. Putin as a candidate received exactly the same media coverage as all the other candidates.

Thinking about that situation, because it may be repeated in the future when one of the candidates taking the official position as the President or the Prime Minister, or the Speaker, or the Head of the Supreme Court, or any other position ¡V a position which for natural reasons is covered by the mass media attention - I believe that we need to have further clarification of our legislation on that question. But I¡¦m not sure whether the other countries have managed to find a good workable solutions for that dilemma because to demand from a candidate in official position to take a vacation during the election campaign may probably be one of the solutions, but I¡¦m not sure whether this demand exists in the other countries¡¦ legislation for elections, but I¡¦m sure that this situation definitely needs further analysis in order to avoid an impression that this official position of a certain candidate is being used or even abused in his electoral interests. And I agree that this should be a matter for the further considerations and of course discussions in the Russian Parliament.

Going on with the assessments done by the international observers ¡§In addition,¡¨ ¡V it is said in this preliminary report ¡V ¡§the state resources at the regional level were also mobilized in the support of one candidate and the overall restrictive candidate registration requirements limited genuine competition.¡¨ Speaking about the genuine competition I would not dwell upon the regional media resources because frankly speaking I¡¦m not aware of that. As the member of the Russian Parliament, I of course do have my constituency, I have been in my constituency during this election campaign and frankly speaking I have not noticed any advantages or disadvantages for this or that candidate in my constituency in the mass media. But again I can not speak for the whole country and we have to check additionally what observations were made by the international mission on that.

Speaking about the registration requirements and genuine on not genuine competition ¡V we had five candidates competing with each other. We also had three or four more who tried to be registered but failed. And in each case the explanation for that was never political, it was not about trying to kick somebody out of the campaign for the simple reason that the ruling authorities would not like his political platform or something like that. The registration has certain requirements and these requirements were completely the same for all the candidates with the only difference - the candidates who were nominated by the political party did not need to collect the signatures while the candidates which were theoretically nominated by the parties and the self-nominated candidates had to collect these signatures in case their political parties or themselves were not members of the Parliament of the Russian Federation.

And these requirements are really hard. I believe that the requirement to collect 2 million signatures is extremely difficult for many and that¡¦s why the President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev initiated the recent reform which has been presented to the state Duma and which has already been approved in the first reading by the Russian Parliament. I has been approved to change this regulation and to make the existing requirements on the registration of the candidates much milder. So, this has been done and I believe that the criticism in the report on this may be acknowledged as fair and is to be accepted. We have actually accepted it in the previous weeks by voting for the coming reform.

I go on reading the report ¡§The election campaign was characterized by continuing and generally unobstructed large scale protests over the allegations of fraud during the December 2011 Duma elections. The demands for honest elections by the citizens and candidates led to greater civic involvement in observation efforts to enhance the integrity of the process.¡¨ It is absolutely good to note that the public atmosphere in Russia was definitely completely different during the presidential election campaign.

And I don¡¦t believe that heated emotions and hard feelings which accompanied this campaign are specifically unique for Russia of today. I have followed many other election campaigns and I know for sure that these demonstrations and protests, these emotions are rather typical in very many cases. In the case of Russia they have not disturbed the campaign, at least until now. We do not know how these protest activities will continue to develop and I cannot exclude that certain politicians in Russia would prefer not to acknowledge the results of these elections and will continue to ask people to go out to the streets and protest.

But again, this is their right not to accept the result of these elections and to disagree with the results with the only limit ¡V threes feelings cannot take the format of an ultimatum like either you acknowledge that we are right or you have to cancel the election results and conduct the next round and so on and so forth. This is unacceptable for me for the simple reason that these elections were legitimate, they were conducted according to the existing legislation of Russia and by that they are to be acknowledged both by the participants inside of Russia and by the observers inside and outside Russia.

I go on ¡§This election showed a clear winner with an absolute majority avoiding the second round, however the voters¡¦ choice was limited, the electoral competition lacked fairness and impartial referee was missing.¡¨ It is a little bit unclear what is meant by the ¡§impartial referee¡¨, probably this is about the Central Electorate Committee, but frankly speaking I cannot recall any sign of the Central Electoral Committee being partial and acting in favour of the certain candidate. Yes, certain signs of it were much more visible and touchable during the previous parliamentary campaign and do share certain part of criticism which was aimed towards the Central Electoral Committee but this time, during the presidential election I frankly cannot see any reason for that criticism.

I continue to read ¡§Due to increase in citizens¡¦ awareness and involvement the elections were more lively, better managed and more seriously observed whereas structural improvements in electoral regulation have been proposed to the Parliament but not yet passed.¡¨ This is exactly what I was speaking about and I believe that this comment is absolutely fair and does have a positive drive.

¡§There were serious problems from the very start of these elections. The point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain and this was not the case in Russia.¡¨ For me this is the major point of disagreement with the preliminary report of the observers. I would like to repeat ¡V the point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain ¡V I cannot agree with that. Yes, the more uncertain the result is, the more spectacular, the more interesting the election campaign is. But if the outcome is predictable, if there is a clear leader in the campaign in Russia or elsewhere in the world, it definitely does not mean that the elections were unfair. It means that one candidate was clearly stronger than the other ones and in the case of the Russian election campaign Mr. Putin definitely enjoyed much better support from the voters than any other candidate. So, this is something I cannot accept and this is something I definitely criticize in the report by the observers.

I¡¦m going on and this is the last part of the report ¡§In this election candidates could not compete on an equal footing although the authorities made some efforts to improve transparency. There remained wide mistrust in the integrity of the election process. As the first step all the allegations of electoral violations need to be thoroughly investigated.¡¨ Yes, they definitely need to be thoroughly investigated and they will be and this time we have much, much better conditions for these investigations for the simple reason that the Russian authorities, the Central Electoral Committee were much better prepared for this type of accusations and I mean the web-cameras. This is a unique technology which was used in Russia nation wide and I believe for the first time ever in the history. Transparent ballot boxes and many other innovations were used.

For me these efforts were taken by the Central Electorate Committee not for the reason they wanted to prevent falsifications. The major intention was to prevent falsification of falsification meaning allegations about falsifications which should have taken place but nobody knows whether they were true or false. And this time each time when any of the candidates, any of the observers would present any allegations about frauds and any other violations of the existing legislation it has to be checked and it will be checked for the simple reason that it is technically possible. And for me this is again the good news.

I know that the Central Electoral Committee received something like 400 official claims from different parts of the country, from different participants of these elections but as far as I understand none or at least very few of these claims were serious enough to put a question mark on the credibility of the voting process and the voting results in the national wide scale. I know that some results in some cases were canceled. There are two or three examples of that kind but it is definitely nothing compared with more than 90 000 polling stations in Russia. So, I believe that the results which were not acknowledged in certain cases by the Central Electoral Committee and the absence of the voting  results from these polling stations can definitely not affect the outcome of the elections.

Finalizing my analysis I believe that there are some fair comments in this report and there are some unfair but what is more important for me, and now I speak not just as a Russian voter but also as the Russian politician, for me it is that there are no question marks about the legitimacy of the presidential elections in Russia in this report which means that the presidential elections in Russia have been acknowledged, at least by the team of the international observers.

And it means that Russia will continue to have legal power, to have a legal president which cannot be questioned by anybody inside or outside of Russia and for me this is the best possible result of the elections for Russia and definitely for the whole of the world because I believe that the world surely needs Russia which is democratic, stable and predictable. And definitely Mr. Putin as the next President of Russia will keep the continuity in the Russian foreign policy, domestic policy and everyone can be sure about that.

Thank you very much for being with me this time alone. I hope that I will be able to meet you next week already in my new capacity as I have been nominated as the Head of the Federal Agency for International Humanitarian Cooperation and I hope that I will be able to join you again speaking about soft power issues, the image of Russia, cultural, educational and other types of cooperation where Russia is not just an interesting but I believe also a desirable partner for many countries in the world.